           
    How do you know if youre cool? If you have to ask then youre not cool. Cowboy Bebop is cool. Not just  because we all say it is, but it just is. Thats its natural state of being; cool. 
Cowboy Bebop came out at a time when the anime industry was trying to find that next Pokemon, flooding the market with kiddie stuff that alienated those of us from the OVA era. Wheres the adult oriented stuff that made us fall in love with this subgenre? We thought anime was dead. Then comes Cowboy Bebop and faith is restored. 
Cowboy Bebop is the story

          
        of everyday life for adults. You work, try and put food on the table, and hope you dont die in the effort. Some may dislike it for that very reason. Lots of anime focus on the optimism of youth and the potential that it brings. Cowboy Bebop shows the grey drudgery of the daily grind that awaits us after school. It plays with the facets of lifes perspective; 
Faye a woman running to a past she cannot remember, Spike is running from his past to live in the present, Jet abandoned his past though is always comes back to haunt him and Ed lives solely for the moment never once thinking about the future. 
They smoke, they drink, they gamble, theyre all looking for a quick fix to end their financial woes. Sadly, thats what being an adult is all about. Cowboy Bebop illustrates this with a beauty, style and grace that makes us want to endure it. Never has our bleak future seemed so fun and worthwhile.
Also Yoko Kanno did the score. I was familiar with her work on Macross Plus, my all time favorite anime (this is the best Mac+ is my fav) and source of my all time favorite song. Her touch adds to the sensory experience making you feel the the series as opposed to simply watching it. When I found out she did the soundtrack to Kids On The Slope, I immediately set myself to watch it.
I want to add something personal to this review. Cowboy Bebop came to me at a time in my life when I needed it the most. So I understand people who swear Naruto & Shippuden is the greatest thing ever, if it was that series for them. Despite the fact I want to shake them like a British nanny (cuz its not), I understand them. For me Cowboy Bebop is one of those anime, like comfort food. No  matter bad a day Im having, I know Im just one episode of Cowboy Bebop away from making it that much better.
It is in fact the greatest anime ever made.

Helpful


read more
