           
    As an avid movie watcher and music lover, Cowboy Bebop was the first anime I've ever seen, with the perspective that I was about to see an anime. Of course, before this experience, I had already watched stuff like Dragon Ball or Doraemon, but those don't really count, because I never really watched them from a critical and artistic point of view. From the time I first finished Cowboy Bebop, I've watched several other anime and even rewatched Cowboy Bebop a second time. Because Cowboy Bebop is so special, both on a personal level and as an anime, I will be using an unconventional order

          
        to review it.


----- Soundtrack (10) -----

I've heard many skeptics say to me that Cowboy Bebop is a silly name for a show, and that it drives them away from watching it. I completely disagree with these opinions, as I think the name Cowboy Bebop is the perfect name in regards to the show's soundtrack. If you heard a fragment of the soundtrack, you'll probably know what I am talking about. The bebop part emphasizes the jazzy influences of this amazing soundtrack (Bebop is a style or variation of jazz), Cowboy epitomizes all the adventures that this musical masterpiece will bring you.

With over 6 hours of absolutely splendid tracks, if you truly enjoy music, you'll be sure to never forget this soundtrack. Tracks like Spokey Dokey, Space Lion, Waltz for Zizi or Farewell Blues are some of the absolute masterpieces to be found among the rest of the equally excellent songs.

The true motivation for me to watch Cowboy Bebop was the grand opening, Tank. Some years ago, Cowboy Bebop was running on my television and from time to time I would listen to the mystical theme song, that wouldn't leave my mind for a long time. This truly inspired me to delve into the world of anime.

I have yet to find a soundtrack as influential and as inspiring as Cowboy Bebop's. No movie, series or anime will provide you with such an outstanding selection of songs. Even if you haven't watched Cowboy Bebop yet, I strongly recommend that you explored the music behind it, even though all of these songs become much more meaningful if you actually watch Cowboy Bebop.


----- Animation (9) -----

In my opinion, this is the only aspect of Cowboy Bebop that is not flawless. This, of course, doesn't remove the fact, that the art department of Cowboy Bebop is still very good, considering its age and the fact the it is mostly hand drawn. Having this in mind, everything looks damn good. However, some of the CGI didn't age very well (even though it is good CGI for the era) and some of the secondary characters could have been given a better look to match their great persona. This isn't the rule, and it certainly doesn't affect the show overall, but it does happen one or two times (Udai Taxim, I am looking at you).

One of the things I've liked about Cowboy Bebop was the fights. You rarely get lost in the action like many shows and they are usually smoothly animated and very enjoyable.

All in all, Cowboy Bebop looks pretty darn good and its visuals certainly match the rest of the theme going on.


----- Story (10) -----

The story of Cowboy Bebop is not an easy one to explain to people who have never seen it. This is mostly because Cowboy Bebop presents a multitude of small stories that build the individual stories of Cowboy Bebop's main characters. It is common for the people who haven't watched Cowboy Bebop to think the show is about some western showdown, but this certainly is not the case. To clear any misconceptions, our main cast consists of bounty hunters and not cowboys. The only true cowboy is Andy, a character who appears late on the show.

I would like to sum up some of the aspects explored in Cowboy Bebop:

1 - The entirety of the series happens in the future at our solar system. One of the fascinating things about Cowboy Bebop is how much our solar system has changed and how you would think human's old habits would be extinct after evolving into a interplanetary civilization. Cowboy Bebop is the story of an expanding and never learning human society.

2 - Cowboy Bebop follows the adventures of a crew of struggling bounty hunters. They are bounty hunters by chance and not choice as you will quickly learn. Together they roam our solar system in hopes of cashing bounties. Cowboy Bebop is the story of The Bebop spaceship.

3 - There is a man merely living a dream. Cowboy Bebop is the story of a man trying to wake up from that dream and get the life he once promised to himself.

I could go on and on writing about all of these things happening on Cowboy Bebop's universe, but these are just some of the more relevant ones.

Lastly, I'd like to add the amazing endings that of most of the episodes have. One could easily compare the format of Cowboy Bebop to that of short stories. A typical episode builds up to great climax and resolution, with lyrical prowess.

Everything in Cowboy Bebop is there for a reason. All the dialogues are meaningful, everything has its place and symbolic reason. The best way to describe Cowboy Bebop is that it is a truly amazing and artistic adventure.


----- Characters (10) -----

I could go on and speak about the characteristics of the main characters, but that really isn't necessary, because as soon as you start watching Cowboy Bebop you understand what they are all about. What really matters is why they act the way they do. What motivates their actions? Why did they end up being bounty hunters? These are questions that are covered perfectly, to say the least. I think one of the best experiences of Cowboy Bebop is you getting to know the crew and not having other people present them to you, so I won't write about these characters, as I think getting to know them is part of the magic of Cowboy Bebop. However, I should praise the supporting cast of Cowboy Bebop. Even though most of the supporting cast rotates and ends up making only one appearance, it is truly amazing how much depth and personality that these characters have. Hell, even the Big Shot presenters are really nice characters!

Funnily, when I discuss Cowboy Bebop with other people, I always get a different answer in regards to who their favorite characters were. Cowboy Bebop is one of the few shows that can achieve this sort of phenomenon and I can safely say that it will provide you with some of the best characters in any art media.


----- Enjoyment/Last Thoughts (10) -----

If you couldn't already tell, I really enjoyed Cowboy Bebop. It was a completely refreshing experience for me, as someone who was used to watch a lot of movies. As many have said it before, there is always something to be enjoyed by everyone in Cowboy Bebop. Even if you don't enjoy it as much as I did, I am sure you will at least like Cowboy Bebop, unless you are completely insensitive to art, because that is what Cowboy Bebop is - a masterpiece.

What I am about to say is a bit harsh, but it is true. I respect a lot of opinions, but one that I can't respect at all is that Cowboy Bebop isn't good or that they didn't like it. People who present you with this opinion are not only insulting their own intellect, but also probably didn't watch the entirety of Cowboy Bebop or didn't understand (which isn't hard) what Cowboy Bebop is about. If those aren't the answers you are probably talking to a very shallow and intellectually lacking person, but then again, these people should never be given your friendship. Yes, this is how much Cowboy Bebop means to me and to a lot of people. This is how good Cowboy Bebop is.


----- Should you watch it? -----

Absolutely. However, you need to take an artistic approach to the series, as, unlike many other popular anime, Cowboy Bebop is not completely linear and it provides a more balanced experience of action and story development.



                                           **Overall (9.8)**

Helpful


read more
