       
    Cowboy Bebop: Spoiler free review

A truly surreal expirence to be had, Cowboy Bebop blends copious and subtle amounts of almost every genre.
A picturesque expirence teeming with euphoria and a wonderful sense of adventure. The world is uniquley crafted
and truly feels like its own.

Story 7/10 Cowboy bebop has an interesting concept of potraying it's story.
Being an episodic adventure, sure each episode has a different plot, but intertwined is segments from the character's pasts, taking us into the present to be projected into the future.
There is very little and a lot going on all at once spanned over this 26 episodic escapade!
Simply put; we start in the

          
        present, slowly unveil the past, and follow the characters into their future.

Characters 7.5/10 Cowboy Bebop is more character interaction than character
development, and the interactions are well composed. The main characters have a lot of major differences,
but that is not to say they fit well together. They bring out the best and worst of
one another, which makes for some pleasantly awesome scenarios. Although progression isn't a main
focus, it is sometimes brought to the foreground through; learning who a character once was or what they were like
and who they are now, or are becoming. Cowboy Bebop has a unique way of unfolding their awesome cast of characters.

Art Direction 8/10 Most modern day animes by comparison still don't do what Cowboy Bebop did in 1998!
Action scenes are crisp and fluid, colors are done in a nice gritty finnese for the most part. Artsy
moments ranging from vibrant with color, to the serene and subtle and moments with artistic pizazz!.

Music 10/10 If you're familiar with Yoko Kanno(the composer) you have already come to know her exceptional
quality. This soundtrack is truly outstanding. Contemporary jazz, up-beat techno, surreal musical compositions
truly every genre can be found here. For 26 episodes there is a WIDE array
of tracks to be heard, and even American tracks from some well-known artists! The music brings the art direction
and whole feel of cowboy bebop alive, overflowing with a truly genuine effort to combine with the anime and bring
it to its peak. Every song fits every moment it is cast into, without being forced.


Cowboy Bebop will capture the attention of almost any anime fan, whether they are looking for action, adventure, sci-fi, even some casual
slice of life elements. Each episode is written by a different individual, but there is an overall sense of
direction. Overall I give Cowboy Bebop a 8/10

Disclaimer: Some episodes can have a dramatically different feel, and I found some episodes to be personally slow.
Do not let this deter you from missing out on an overall great anime!

PS: If you found it helpful, or not helpful please, I implore you to contact me via message or comment!
I'm really looking for critique and want to hear from the anime fans themselves! Thankyou, so much ^_^
        

Helpful


read more
