        
    How can I possibly review "Cowboy Bebop"? The show has been reviewed, and re-reviewed, and talked about, and taken apart, been overrated, underrated, and just done to death that at this point my words would make about as much difference as if I were to drop a lit match onto the surface of the sun. But, maybe my words will read and maybe you the reader will be aided by them. 

The word I can use to describe this Anime best is cool. From the characters, to the artwork, to the soundtrack, to the dialogue. It's a smooth, fun, futuristic ride through this 26-episode series.

          
        Most episodes are stand alone with a few two part ones that deal with the big picture plot of the series. It has a massive tech-noir flavor, futuristic settings that are fogged by clouds of cigarette smoke and a jazz melody in the background. I hope the future is this cool. 

The characters in this show are unforgettable and grow on you very quickly. Spike Spiegel, the mellow martial arts bounty hunter with a mysterious past. Jet Black, the grizzled ex-cop with a cybernetic arm who enjoys gardening. Faye Valentine, the grifting femme fatale who always ends up in the wrong place at the wrong time. Ed, the little girl with a boys name who is a total genius and total goof, and Ein the Dog. He does dog stuff.  

Now, don't go into this show expecting to be blown away. The amount of praise this show gets makes it sound like it will change your life, lower your taxes, and improve your gas mileage. It's a great show. A masterpiece. But step back, take a deep breath, and watch one episode at a time when you can. Just sit back and enjoy the ride. Don't binge. I find this is best way to enjoy the show. Sub vs. Dub is a surprising big win for the dub. Steve Blum, Wendee Lee, Beau Billingslea, and Melissa Fahn as Spike, Faye, Jet, and Ed play their parts to perfection and set the gold standard for every English dub before or since. If all English casts were as good as this, subtitles would not be necessary.

I hope this review has helped you out and I thank you for taking the time to read it. Please enjoy "Cowboy Bebop" as much as I did. It's a great show. And a must-see for any Anime fan. 10/10. Check it out. Cheers! 


Helpful


read more
