      
    Shinichiro Watanabe's Cowboy Bebop is one of the legends of anime.  It's a program most anime viewers have heard of regardless of whether they've watched it in full or not and thanks to the multiple airings it's received over the years on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim block it's a small number indeed who've never seen at least an episode.  I can safely say that before I purchased Bandai's recently released complete collection I'd seen most of the episodes on television in one order or another so I wasn't watching anything strikingly new but this does mark the first time I've watched Cowboy Bebop

          
        in full from beginning to end in the order it was intended and as a result I feel I'm up to the challenge of writing a proper critique of what I saw.  The back of the case for my complete collection informs me that Cowboy Bebop was &quot;voted (the) greatest anime of all time!&quot;  Sale's pitches aside its an odd thing to say.  Unless you're a member of a doomsday cult I'd think it's safe to say we have a fair bit of time left till we have to decide what the greatest anything of all time was.  That said I had a lot of fun watching Cowboy Bebop and while I don't think it's one of anime's greatest contributions to visual media I can certainly see where it's reputation comes from.

Cowboy Bebop takes place in the year 2071.  Decades earlier a system of gates was established to allow for easy travel throughout the solar system.  However, due to a fatal instability in the gate system that was ignored by the contractors, a disaster known as the Gate Accident occurred.  As a result of the accident most of Earth's surface was destroyed and humanity spread out to more habitable places on or around other planets.  This leads to a kind of neo-Wild West scenario with the central government and law enforcement agencies in a weakened state leading to a kind of lawlessness.  It is an institutionalized system of bounty hunters that picks up the slack and this is the concept much of the program centers on.

The setting, as mentioned, is a kind of neo-Wild West in space, hence the &quot;Cowboy&quot; half of the title.  Unlike Trigun, for example, which takes place in a setting that, steampunk elements aside, is virtually identical to that found in American Westerns, Cowboy Bebop plays out in a setting very much like the present.  Its science fiction but the world is nonetheless recognizable as being our own.  Some elements stand out on occasion from the rest of the world as though they were transposed straight out of a typical American Western with little thought to consistency with the rest of the setting (for example the occasional conspicuous presence of individuals dressed in ponchos and sombreros), but it all works nonetheless to create an intriguing world for the story lines to play out in.

I tend to think that one the reasons for Cowboy Bebop's monumental success is the fact that it is a very fun, easy show to watch.  It doesn't make any demands on the viewer with its highly episodic nature and lack of any real overarching plot.  The closest Cowboy Bebop comes to having one is the story of Spike's past and even then it only occupies five episodes out of the total twenty-six. By and large, episodes either focus on the story of a specific bounty or on developing the main cast and their pasts and even though Spike's story is given the most attention it still suffers from the limited amount of time it receives.  In fact, if I were pressed, I'd have to say that the main story line is not exclusively about Spike's past at all but about everyone's.  The members of the crew of the spaceship Bebop all have troubled pasts which they all eventually have to face up to and that they will either overcome and move on or be destroyed.

To it's credit Cowboy Bebop possesses a well-developed essentially likable cast of characters.  Spike, Jet, and Faye are all interesting characters and even Ed, despite remaining largely a question mark throughout compared to the rest, is still a fun character to watch.  Problems arise, however, with members of the supporting cast, specifically those involved with Spike's past.  His past is revealed with a wonderful sense of subtlety throughout via the use of flashes of memory, succeeding to tell a complete story despite the time constraints.  However Spike's old associates from the Red Dragon syndicate don't come out so well.  Julia and particularly Vicious receive very little development.  Some characters from stand-alone bounty hunting episodes are more developed.  Often the most understanding that is provided about these characters comes solely from Spike&rsquo;s reactions to them which, to be fair, often proves to be enough.

On the audio/visual front Cowboy Bebop is quite the success.  Character designs by Toshihiro Kawamoto are consistently appealing and the animation is smooth utilizing a nicely done blend of two dimensional and computer generated animation.  For the purposes of this review I watched the dub for Cowboy Bebop which is regarded as one of the best with good reason.  All members of the cast fit their characters well and convey believable emotion when needed.  Yoko Kanno should need little introduction for her role in composing the soundtrack, focusing primarily on jazz while providing a fair variety of other genres throughout.  All in all a very high quality production even ten years later.

Overall, for me, Cowboy Bebop isn't a favorite, my main gripe being my issues with the story line.  However, despite that it proved to be a very fun, perhaps even addictive show to watch.  It has a wonderful soundtrack and a cast of characters well worth remembering after the final credit scroll.  For this I award it an overall rating of 8/10.
        

Helpful


read more
