      
    Cowboy Bebop - I believe is one of the most loved animes out there, even today.
There are great reviews here for this anime - reviews that'll make you want to watch or drop it.
So why is another one needed? - Well, some people just like to have insight over things they have an interest for.

Bear in mind that this is a review from someone who completed the Anime in 2017. Maybe it'd have been different if I watched it back in 1998, but I didn't, so I have to judge it from what I felt at the time of watching it. Also, please don't hate

          
        me for not loving Cowboy Bebop - I don't mean to bash it, I'm just sharing my experiences.

I didn't go in expecting a lot from Cowboy Bebop but I just knew I had to watch it because it's such a classic. I think that was a good thing.

Storywise... there's not much going on. It's definitely the weakest point overall. I mean, there's a story to be told - but it's sort of scattered all over the place when it didn''t need to be. It's a simple story told in erratic ways. Simply put, the narrative is flawed. You'll get bits of information here and there, which then will be forgotten for some time for no apparent reason. I'm fine with episodic anime, I actually like them, but Cowboy Bebop did not work for me - the switching between telling you one piece of the story and then moving to a random episode where absolutely nothing important or interesting happens is really off-putting to me. At least they should have used these to advance the plot in better ways instead of just coming up with another "Saturday Morning Villain" (which again, has no connection whatsoever to the rest of the anime - it'd have been fine if it was done once or twice, but more than that really pushed my patience).

In terms of Audio/Visual presentation, the studio did a fantastic job, and I say this even though I did not like most of the soundtracks and style of music used - but I can recognize that they put a lot of effort into it and that it fits the theme they had going on. There seems to be, as many have pointed out, a lot of Western influence here. Even the characters seem to be made in a way that appeals "more than usual" to western audiences.

There's great variety between each character, and I have to applaud the art team because the anime holds up well even nowadays, in fact, I'd say it looks better than most animes out there today precisely because it has it's own very defined and original style.

Sadly, most of these characters weren't explored well - this hurts the show a lot because it makes caring for them harder than it should be.

The thing is though, even though I could write a lot more to complain, Cowboy Bebop still managed to entertain me with its action scenes - which is why I give it a 7 overall. I had way more fun than with Black Lagoon for example (which I found dull and boring). There's just something likeable about Spike and the way he handles his problems which is very... entertaining.

As someone else said in another review, what you'll get here is ''style over substance".
        

Helpful


read more
