       
    In my mind, Cowboy Bebop is the perfect show for people you know who say "Anime? What are you, 12?" 

It's slick, it's funny, it's serious, and it knows how to avoid anime stereotypes. It has characters that you'll never get tired of, plot twists that will keep you watching up late at night, epic fight scenes, and a soundtrack that is worth shelling out for.

With that said, let's roll.

Story: 9

Though it wanders on occasion, I'd like to say that nearly 100% of the time it's to develop characters further or to add a bit of humor. The Star Trek parody episode was a bit

          
        over the top (but enjoyable), and to me it's hard to enjoy enjoy the filler episodes as much as the ones where sh*t really gets real. But let's delve into those. WOW. The last two episodes of the show are as good as it gets in anime. Not to mention the 5th episode, or the back-to-back ones that take place on Mars. I won't ruin any story elements, but look forward to these. If you take anything from this review, take this: those 5 episodes are worth watching over, and over, and over, for any anime fan.

Art: 8

It's tough to write a review now for a show that took place as long ago as it did, but I'll give it a shot. It's well drawn, and well animated, but it's nothing mindblowing. I remember seeing the first episode fight scenes and being thoroughly impressed, but for me the main draws of the show were always the music, the characters, and the story. I can't say I've ever been much of an art critic, but for the most part is was aesthetically pleasing. I was certainly impressed by the character design, and the world that the artists created was both interesting and desirable. 

Sound: 10

Yoko Kanno honestly outdid herself this time. In all my years of watching anime, this is the first time I've really felt like I NEEDED the soundtrack. Great OP, great songs throughout, great everything. So impressed with what she did here.

Character: 9 

How can you not love Spike Spiegel or Faye Valentine? They're the ones that you'd like to be in real life. To me, it's not just how badass the characters are, it's the ideals they represent. Honor, bravery, and an unwillingness to let anything stand before something that you know in your heart is right. The only comparison that I can make here is a show called Firefly, which isn't an anime but in some ways reminds me of Bebop. Great design, great execution, and I wouldn't get sick of any of them even if the show went on for 100 eps. 
        

Helpful


read more
