        
    Story:

In the year 2071, much of the world has transferred to different planets and space crafts. Our two main characters: Spike and Jet, are bounty hunters, tracking down bounties and delivering the targets to the police to make money.

Cowboy Bebop is a collection of stories with a arcing story throughout the whole series.

Most of the stories are very well written and very dark and intense. What might put off some viewers is how slow the episodes are. Some episodes drag for little bit too long. But this recovered for the most part with episodes that are action packed and really fun.

Rating: 9

Art:

The art in Cowboy

          
        Bebop is very stylistic and gritty. The characters designs are very unique, and each character looks very different.

The whole style is also very reminiscent of noir movies from the 40s and 50s. The noir theme really gives the show its own identity.

Rating: 10

Sound:

The soundtrack for the anime is fantastic. The show uses jazz very effectively to add to the atmosphere. The opening theme "Tank" is one of the most iconic anime themes ever and for good reason, its catchy and lets you know what you are getting into.

Cowboy Bebop features one of the best dubs ever made. At many times its better the Japanese dub. The voices match perfectly to characters.

Rating: 10

Character:

The characters in Cowboy Bebop make the show really fun to watch. The characters are:

Spike, the closest character we have to a main character. He has an dark past and wants to run away from it. He has a fun personality with quick dialogue. Definitely one of the best characters.

Jet, he's the captain of the Bebop and is an ex-police officer. He has a fake arm and legs. He's very stern but also very quick and clever. He has very good dialogue with Spike and is great because of it.

Faye, coming in at episode 3, throughout the whole series Faye is probably the one who grows the most. She is cocky and mean. But really is a good person. It's always fun seeing how she is going to get out of a situation.

Edward, coming in at episode 9, Edward is 13 year old girl, who is a computer hacker and loud mouth. She is quite annoying in some cases, yet fine in others. She's a very mixed bag and feels a little out of place.

Rating: 8

Overall Rating and Enjoyment:

Cowboy Bebop is a classic, and a anime that nobody should miss. That said it isn't perfect and has many problems. My enjoyment went up and down as the series went on. But the ending is one of the best anime endings and I did feel satisfied when it ended.

Overall: 8
        

Helpful


read more
