      
    I have been putting Cowboy Bebop off for a month or two, watching an episode here, watching an episode there, dropping it, putting it on hold, picking it back up again, etc. It's a little hard to get into considering it is solely character driven from the first episode on, and since you don't even find out...anything...about the characters until the tenth or so episode, there isn't much to work off of in the "do I or don't I" character like/attachment department. 

Story-wise, Cowboy Bebop doesn't actually have any past 4, maybe 5, episodes overall. It is episodic, some of the 20 minute plotlines a

          
        hit, and others a miss. Some are character-based, some are silly (the fridge will get cleaned out more often now if I have anything to say about it), and some are serious. Once you finally hit the actual "story" of Cowboy Bebop near the end, it is amazing how well they managed to set it up and run it so smoothly without much priorly given information. 

It took me until the last day I decided to just sit down and watch the last seven episodes to decide if I just meh liked, or loved, the characters. I've settled into a happy medium. Everyone down to Ein have a sort of apathetic depth that makes them feel all the more real. They have flaws, they have personalities, they work well together. Sometimes it's hard to remember they are fictional because of how naturally they act. 

Overall, Cwboy Bebop delivers enjoyment of  not being a "this is what we learned today" anime, but also not a shallow, "who cares" anime. It has a level of depth where it gives off a "this is what's going on and we don't care if you have an issue with it" feel, something that made it boring, or extra good, depending on my mood. It's a good one to try and see, and it's also a good one to watch over a period of time, and give a couple of chances. It definitely has a bit of everything, from silly to downright creepy, and even if you don't like it as a whole, you will probably find at least one episode that suits your tastes. 
        

Helpful


read more
