      
    So, I know almost everyone loves this show to death, but honestly I in no way can understand the hype. Cowboy Bebop is, probably, the worst anime I have ever seen in my life.

Story - 1
First of all, there is no story. The show is episodic, which isn't always a bad thing, but Cowboy Bebop does each individual episode's story so poorly. Every episode basically goes the same way. The crew catches a cheap bounty showing how "cool" they are. Then, one of the members meets some suspicious stranger, who, surprise, ends up having a bounty on their head. As the episode moves on, we

          
        learn that the criminal isn't actually a bad person, and that they've just been put in a rough situation. A final confrontation takes place, and the criminal dies at the end. Every now and then there are special character episodes, which change up the formula a little bit, but then the consequences to these stories never show up again. 

Art - 6
Art was really bland. The colors are boring. Animation was smooth. But then again it's easy to make animation smooth when almost nothing happens.

Sound - No Score
I don't listen to music because I spend all my time watching anime, so the whole music aspect of the show was lost on me. 

Character - 3
The characters are so boring and simple. Spike is the typical "cool" character because he never has to put any effort into what he's doing. His backstory, which is seemingly one of the big pulls of the show, is so cliche that it becomes boring and a waste of time. I would criticize Jet's character but I really don't know enough about him because he's never developed, except for one random character episode that is supposed to make us feel sorry for him or something. Faye is just for fan-service and is boring. Meanwhile Ed is just there. She doesn't contribute anything except weird comic relief. Overall, the characters are so boring and the relationships between them are even more boring. The characters rarely actually interact with each other. The only time I was ever actually interested in the characters was around episode 10 during Spike's character episode. There was clear tension between the members of the crew, and that actually had me interested. However not only did this tension come out of nowhere, it also disappeared just as instantly as it was created. 

Enjoyment - 1
Not a fun show at all. The action scenes are all incredibly boring. First of all they are just slow, and coupled with the fact that we know nothing serious is going to happen to the characters, there is zero excitement. 

Overall - 2
cowboy Bebop is a bad show, and as I said earlier I cannot understand why people love it. Every element of the show is boring and cliche. People might say that it is unlike any other anime out there, but in reality it shares far more than it may seem. Like most anime, every character has a "tragic" backstory. These backstories also are randomly introduced and randomly vanish over the course of one or two episodes. Also this show is filled with fan-service, which people seem to just not have a problem with in this anime for some reason. Cowboy Bebop is only unique in the sense that no one on the show does anything unique or interesting.
        

Helpful


read more
