      
    Let Cowboy Bebop serve as an example of why I consider praise for a series to be a spoiler in and of itself. For decades I have heard nothing but exaltation for Cowboy Bebop, and in the face of that kind of overwhelming critical and cult acclamation... it's hard not to be disappointed. If someone leads you to believe you will have your mind blown and your life changed, anything less makes the whole thing feel like they've made you put on a damp sweater. 

Maybe Cowboy Bebop is best considered within a particular social timeframe and cultural mindset. Maybe Cowboy Bebop is great because

          
        of the effect it had on a genre. Because I came to Cowboy Bebop almost two-decades late, however, none of that can bear upon my review of it. I can only review it as I experienced it. This is to say, I thought Cowboy Bebop was on the high side of okay.

I like the characters. They're fun, they're interesting, they have some depth (but not a lot of growth). I like the world and the setting. The series passed the time. That's kind of where it ends for me. Perhaps it's a matter of taste, but I'm not very interested in episodic, short-term story telling and I wish that there'd been a series-long arc covering the dealings with the Syndicate to tie everything together. As it is, each episode is just a cast of characters doing a bunch of random crap and remaining unchanged as a result. This kind of storytelling is deeply dissatisfying for me--there's a reason why serialized dramas are ruling TV these days and why self-contained procedural dramas don't win awards. 

Ultimately, I was disappointed that Cowboy Bebop didn't strive to do more, to BE more, given the perfect cast, setting, and set-up for an engaging high-concept story. Bebop is a series that is better discovered at random--late night on TV or on a shelf in a 00's video store--than it is discovered due to its acclaim. It's better experienced for what it is than for what it could or should have been. 


Helpful


read more
