          
    As a child, Cowboy Bebop was an animation that "I didn't get"; it was focusing on a much bigger picture that wasn't tied to explosions and intense action. Now as an adult and rewatching the series. I am convinced that it is one of the greatest animation/shows ever made. There is a mastercraft work of how this show delivers its ideas and characters that we often overlook or take for granted today. The main character Spike Speigel is no superhero or beefed up multi-colored character, but rather a cocky, lazy and sometimes efficient bounty hunter. The brilliance in this setup however is that Spike feels

          
        more human and relates more to me than any character in animation I have yet to see. His past and his attitude all reflect a sort of Han Solo anti hero style that makes him compelling to watch. Of course Ein, Edward, Valentine and Jet are also great characters to watch too as their backstories give just enough to wet the palate of your imagination and leaves them open ended for you to decide for yourself what their lives are like.

In a world where anime can take to monstrous heights and commitment where watching hundreds of episodes can be a huge deterrent for newcomers, Cowboy Bebop only comprises of a single season and carries far more impact and power than any I had watch even now. This is not to overshadow other shows that have their own moments, but to see something so short get so much right is why some, myself included, consider it a masterpiece. The opening is iconic and really is one of the best intros to any show (including non-anime) that you could ever have, with jazz and blues mixed and with a touch of this Wild Western grit that really hooks you right in. 

Of course there are always flaws to every show and this one is no exception. While the artwork and design is still strong overall, there are some animations that have seen age and can be a bit silly despite a possible serious tone. Not every episode has the same quality (which all still rank above well done anyways) given so it's a matter of looking far more into the themes and concepts to take more from it. Aside from some nitpicks, the show still remains a staple to animation done at it's peak. 10/10s are often misunderstood by people as "perfect" but nothing truly is; it's just a representation of how a craft is fine tuned to deliver compelling pieces of art and characters that we take away from. A gigantic explosion will always be trumped by a finger gun by a dying man as he shows his last cocky attitude to the viewer. 

Cowboy Bebop is outstanding in it's entirety. Nothing is weak or dull for a single episode. The characters and their backgrounds are all wonderfully interesting and have a huge sense of relativity to ourselves. We often see anime show teens that fight for their emerging adulthoods and being as changed people. Cowboy Bebop shows adults that don't change and the struggles of living in such a world that it makes it even far better. Watch this animation, there is a sadness and yet engrossing tale to be told that is outstanding in every sense of the word.  
        

Helpful


read more
