         
    "Just a cowboy ma'am"

Cowboy Bebop is most likely one of the most famous anime out there. And it is, for very good reasons. It's a classic, and one of the first anime with a good English dub. The anime takes place in the future, following the adventures of Spike and Jet, bounty hunters (or cowboys) looking for cash. As they go about their adventures, they pick up a lady (Faye Valentine), a dog (Ein), and a boy (who's really a girl named Ed). Many things happen to them, and you eventually learn more about Spike and his interesting background.

Story - 9/10

While having what is IMO

          
        the best ending possible in any anime, it has too many filler episodes that don't have anything to do with the actual plot. This would be fine, if they actual episodes were very good, but some of them have barely anything to do with hunting down criminals, such as the one where they purchase some sketchy mushrooms. Otherwise the main plot line of the show is amazing, and the ending wraps it all up very nicely. The backstory of some of the characters is also what makes this show fantastic.

Art - 10/10

Even though it is a very old show, it still stands up there as one of the best drawn anime I've ever seen. The animation during fights is fantastic, especially for it's time and I've never seen anything like it when I first saw it on T.V. Characters are well drawn with realistic features, nothing too exaggerated like most animes nowaday.

Sound - 10/10

Oh boy, where do I even start. This show has what I want to say the best soundtrack of any anime I've ever seen in my entire life. Maybe it's my bias because it's one of the first anime I've ever seen, but The Seatbelts did an amazing job and the ending theme song (The Real Folk Blues) is one of my favorite songs of all time. I constantly hum it almost all the time in fact, and some of my colleagues have even been interested to know here it is from.

And the English dub is one of the first best ones out there. I really felt the emotions in this dub unlike most other dubs which are just bland. However, this one definitely stands out in terms of english dub quality. 

Character - 9/10

While the show did an amazing job developing Spike's and Jet's characters, I felt that Vicious and the others could've been done a little better. I still felt like I wanted to know more about them, but sadly the show didn't deliver on that aspect. However, for sure, they did an amazing job for what they did develop.

Enjoyment - 10/10

I love this anime. It's another of the ones that I grew up with, and it still sticks with me even today. It was the show that really stood out to me, and probably the one that got me into watching even more anime. Even after re-watching it recently, I still felt compelled to watch it again because that's how I much I enjoyed it. The fight scenes were splendid, the ending stunning, soundtrack fantastic, there was almost no downsides, and for the ones that it has, it makes up for two fold.

Overall - 9/10
        

Helpful


read more
