      
    Unlike some anime shows, this one does not grip you at the start, and some of the best/most interesting characters do not come in until a lot later.  The animation is slightly dated, and there are few special effects such as we are used to now.  The "futuristic" world shown is perhaps more reliant on spaceships, space travel, and successful colonization of neighbouring planets than is realistic.  However, despite these flaws, Cowboy Bebop remains an overall entertaining, engaging and, somewhat surprisingly, a moving show.

Great things about this show - the characters - they do have personality, annoyingly we never see the full

          
        depth of some of the characters, even by the end of the show there are still some mysteries that are never solved.  The people in the show give a good idea of the feeling and setting of the show, a series of run-down, rather sorry worlds after the almost ultimate demise of the first.  

The animation, as I said earlier, lacks special effects, particularly in the space-scenes, that we are accustomed to seeing in the 21st century, however the actual character designs are somewhat wacky and goofy at first - but ultimately, wonderful.  The unrealistically long legs and odd, long movements of the people in the show characterize its style, and somehow help to define the people in the show.  In particular the unrealistically wobbly arms of Ed (a character who arrives a little bit later) give us a good idea of his/her carefree, wacky, young, "wobbly" personality.

Some of the episodes, especially considering those nearer the end, feel a great deal like filler episodes, but almost every one is worth watching for the build-up to the last few, plus the film which came after this series and happens at some point "between" two of the episodes.  Most of the episodes in the beginning and middle give us little snippets of the characters' backgrounds and the plot which comes into play later on (most of the episodes are basically separate storylines).  

The music is also a highlight of the show, most of being composed by Yoko Kanno, famous for her diverse anime soundtracks.  Well, the variety and depth of music in Cowboy Bebop should not disappoint.  Some of it is country/folk music, fitting the Western theme of the series (COWBOY), but that which is not, is less expected and is fitting to whatever mood the show is trying to portray.

I thoroughly recommend Cowboy Bebop, even if, on the surface, it does not appear to be your sort of anime show.  The kind of anime I generally watch does not fall into many, if any, of Cowboy Bebop's categories (e.g Ao No Exorcist, Blood Lad, Persona 4: The Animation), but I have absolutely no regrets whatsoever after watching a show of this nature.  Trust me, even if it is not your sort of thing, you'll have to admit, even if after watching only one episode, that Cowboy Bebop has its merits.
        

Helpful


read more
