      
    You've got be in a certain time at a certain place to appreciate Cowboy Bepop. It's sense of cultural mismatch doesn't excuse it's lack of identity. It pushes style over substance because there is no substance. It's constant homage to everything and anything muddies whatever originality it has.

But at the same time, cowboys in space sounds cool right? Freeform jazz is cool too. Martial arts are cool. Are these the reasons the anime became so famous? Or is it because the 90s meant it had to be viewed on television at whatever time the channels chose to air Japanese cartoons, meaning that the sense of

          
        disconnect was covered up by genuine disconnection? Is it because it was the only good looking anime that could be watched - in English - without cringing?

Perhaps it's my fault I didn't like Cowboy Bepop. Maybe it's because I chose to marathon it, going 3-4 episodes a day? Maybe it's because it's old? Maybe I'm simply not the target audience? During the duration I gave Cowboy Bebop, I was constantly trying to puzzle together why I didn't like it. Maybe it'll get better, I figured.

The thing is that any logical conclusion I could think of didn't make sense. Other 90s anime include some of my all time favourites like Neon Genesis, Revolutionary Girl Utena and Serial Experiments Lain, so it's definitely not my lack of tolerance towards it's age. I've marathoned tons of shows, and if anything, that tends to make me enjoy them more. I love sci-fi.

When I finally came to my senses, I finally rejected the idea that Cowboy Bepop is good. I accepted my own opinion, piercing through the thick armour of everybody else's, fuelled by rampant nostalgia and shielded by being overly sympathetic to the show's age.

With most (x)-of-the-week shows, you figure out quite quickly whether you'll like them or not based on 1 or 2 episodes. I liked Bepop at first, I loved it's sense of style, with a Blade-Runner-like noir universe and fun jazz. But every episode had exactly the same format, with no connections between episode - no hook to make me care. The 20 minute runtime of the show meant that they nose-dived into introducing whoever they chase, they chase them and then they get paid. The action sequences were so drawn out that there wasn't any time for fickle character development or an underlying plot. 

Every single list discussing the best characters in anime includes one or two of these characters. After 16 or so mundane episodes, I just couldn't figure this one out. They're bland. Their interactions are cold and sterile with little chemistry. A sense of family was forced upon you, but it only served to remind how stereotypical and cliche Jet's caring side is. Faye's design makes her nothing more than sci-fi modified fanservice, and her character has very little going on inside. Ed is annoying.

And then we come to Spike, who serves as the show's hero. He's a generic Marty Stu, who's too cool to care about. 

Cowboy Bepop amazes me, it really does. The aura of perfection is has, built solely on fond memories of small TVs and awkward schedules, is impressive. But if you take it out of context, the facade falls down. Cowboy Bepop is weekly trash and nothing more.




Helpful


read more
