           
    "And the work which has become a genre unto itself shall be called: Cowboy Bebop" 

^ This sentence was showed several times during the episodes and it is already giving away about the uniqueness Cowboy Bebop carries. There are many unique anime in our anime world, but most of them fail to execute it well. However, fortunately that is not the case with Cowboy Bebop. It is a truly classic anime with incredibly awesome soundtrack and brilliant character development.

Cowboy Bebop centers around a group of bounty hunters in a futuristic, space-western setting. The year is 2071 and the place is our Solar System, where various

          
        planets and moons have been terraformed for human settlement. Bebop is a spaceship where two bounty hunters Spike Spiegel and Jet Black are travelling around the space and hunting down their preys to earn money. Along the way their duo (2) becomes a quintet (5) when the engineered dog Ein, beautiful yet very complicated women Faye Valentine, and computer genius teenage girl Edward (yes a girl) joins their group, or I should say forced themselves in.

This newly formed bounty hunter group is ridiculously unlucky since the day their duo became a quintet. However, this is exactly what brings the comedy. Their unlucky hunt probably is due to the lack of teamwork and recognition of each other skills. Even though they are all highly skilled in certain areas, they all usually go alone on the job which is what makes the series even more entertaining.

Yes, the plot is not the main engine of Cowboy Bebop series. Every episode is a new story and rarely has any relevance to the past episodes. Sometimes they are dramatic, sometimes comedic and sometimes very serious. When the episode starts, you simply have no clue what theme and mood this time it will be and will they capture their prey or not, or maybe it will be one of those rare episodes when they follow the main story of Cowboy Bebop? In any case, all episodes are very enjoyable and unpredictable.

Since the plot is not the main engine, then what exactly makes Cowboy Bebop series so amazing that it is usually listed in most anime top lists? Well that probably is characters and OST. Every one of the main character's have some really harsh past that they do not want to share with anyone at all. It is something they treasure a lot. All of this does not stop them from some really amusing interaction.

As I mentioned already, they have some really harsh pasts. This "past" thing is what gives a lot of room for the character development. Their past is not revealed in one short episode and what is most important - the way their past is revealed. Usually past is revealed by jumping into flashbacks, however that is not the case with Cowbow Bebop. To see how it is done, you will have to watch it yourself, but I can reassure you that their growth as individual and as a team member is definitely executed extremely well and in entertaining way.

Music is the other major factor why this series is so brilliant. Whole soundtrack is simply superb. This whole jazz music is fitting the story perfectly. I have never seen another anime that could go so perfectly in sync with its soundtrack. The last two episodes is kinda a showdown of the beauty that jazz can actually offer in combination with great story.

What is really surprising that animation is rather good considering in what year Cowboy Bebop aired. Usually I am very picky on the old anime because I cannot withstand crappy animation and just because of this I avoided Cowboy Bebop too. Well now I can certainly say that either the series were so entertaining that I did not notice animation flaws or the animation was just simply good enough considering it was released in 1998.

Overall, Cowboy Bebop is in the anime top tier list definitely for a reason. With its great amusing characters, beautiful and very fitting jazz music it also gives many short yet brilliant stories. I am not afraid to use this word to describe Cowboy Bebop at all - MASTERPIECE.

P.S. I must praise the voice actors who dubbed it amazingly well. I do not know how was the Japanese dubs, but English were great.
        

Helpful


read more
