            
    This is the best anime ever made.

Why?

Because it isn't anime.

There aren't any anime conventions in it. There is no anime soundtrack. There are no schoolgirls, no tsundere, no moe, no giant robots.

This is a TV show.

Anyone can watch it and enjoy it.

It has a plot, but it's also episodic so you can just sit down and watch it. 

It's about bounty hunters, something Sergio Leone made popular--and put to good use here.

The characters are well put together with distinctive personalities (and an Homage to Lupin). Bruce-lee-esque Spike that looks like he's out of a 70s action flick, a Tarantino Movie, and stole his wardrobe from

          
        Lupin. Jet, the sensible foil to Spike--cop turned bounty hunter. Faye Valentine, the typical scantily clad woman. But her gambling problem, poignant backstory, and the fact she's out of place in the "future" world rounds her out perfectly. You could argue that the comedic "Ed," a hacker child, is the least fitting out of the four, but honestly odd episodes like Mushroom Samba and when she searches for her father seem to redeem that. And finally there's Vicious, the cold hearted syndicate killer and perfect antagonist to Spike. His katana to Spike's guns.

The settings are our solar system in the near future, with creative takes on each planet/moon--everything is beautiful and fitting, like Mosques on Venus, a sprawling Mars, crater-ridden Earth. Nothing extravagant, but the backgrounds are always there, noticeable, and fitting for the story. Shootouts in cathedrals, homage to kung fu, Tarantino, Leone. 

This is good because it's derivative of things that work. It has a great jazz soundtrack that doesn't fall prey to squeaky j-pop music and also matches the mood. The backstory is a simple one of the betrayal between men and women. The pacing is fast and uncluttered. 

And the ending is satisfying.

This is also the only anime where the English dub is peerless and so much more fitting than the Japanese version.

Watch it in order, or just watch one episode.

If you have to buy just one anime for your collection, you can't go wrong with this--the replay value is excellent, like watching your favorite childhood action films on the weekends that you never get sick of.

This is the exception to anime, not the norm. 

And something like this comes out every decade or two. It's impossible not to enjoy. If anime was more like this than the shit that's around now, it wouldn't be seen as a distraction for socially maladjusted shut-ins. 
        

Helpful


read more
