            
    Cowboy Bebop, is a masterpiece. Anybody who argues otherwise quite obviously doesn't understand the medium. Cowboy bebop is one of the few shows out there that exists so highly in so many people's lists that it has become like a reference point all other anime is graded out of. 
*Person 1* So I just finished Tokyo Weeabho-I mean ghoul.
*Person 2* Hmm, how many Bebops out of 10 was it?
*Person 1* Eh, 2-3.
*Person 2* This analogy is getting old!
But I think you understand what I mean.

Let me start with the story, a lot of people could argue that CB is just a bunch of filler, and

          
        while they might technically be right, all the filler there serves the purpose of supplying character development which makes the story make sense. It all ties in and that is wonderful.

Art? Pfft, more like heaven's gloriously profound image of god we just found lying around on Toonami one day.

Sound?
2 words, Yoko Kanno.
Done. 
NEXT!

Character development as I stated earlier is an integral element of this, as is Yoko Kanno's stunningly jazzy soundtrack and this is one of the few anime out there that rivals NGE in terms of character depth an portrayal.
Character development is defined as
"the change a character undergoes during the course of a story"
And in most stories this would apply to character that goes from point A (Us knowing nothing about them) to point B (Us knowing something about them)
But in Bebop they handle it a bit... Smoother, because there are no time stamps at which we know more about them per se.
I will just say, like Spike's famous fighting style... It's smooth like water.

The enjoyment is so far through the roof I can see the toys in the attic, it's just a fun show.
Overall Bebop is an absolute masterpiece that needs to be seen by anybody and everybody, even people who don't like anime.
Watch it and enjoy, it's a wild ride.


See you, space cowboys ;)
        

Helpful


read more
