       
    Note: English is not my primary language so grammar errors can be made here.

Note 2: This review may have small spoilers.

 Cowboy Bebop is a totally original anime, is not an adaptation of a manga, light novel or anything before, was written and directed by Shinichiro Watanabe and the director of the brilliant soundtrack was Kobayashi Katsuyoshi.

Story (8/10): Cowboy Bebop tells the story of four bounty hunters trying to make a living catching wanted criminals and handing them to the police. Cowboy Bebop works in a way different from others animes, no arcs or anything like that, each episode is a different story with different

          
        characters being added. Each episode they try to catch a wanted criminal or has a backstory of the main characters, there are some exceptions where the episodes follow in sequence with the 1st part and the 2nd part, the story is simple, however interesting, you see several different cases each episode and also the backstory of the main characters, but for me is the weakest point of the anime, because I prefer the division by arcs.

Art / Animation (8/10): considering that this is an anime 1998, the animation is very good and fluid, the well-designed characters and each very different from the other, not only in the characters design, the clothes too, action scenes are impressive too, very well made, in melee combat and also when they use firearms, speaking of fire, also very well done and lively, vibrant and bold colors, the smoke is also amazing, the space ships and design are also very good, the animation is very good indeed, but also has its small technical problems like all animation, but does not hurt one bit the experience.

Soundtrack (10/10): undoubtedly the most positive point of Cowboy Bebop, the soundtrack is jazz, blues and other popular music of the 80's and 90's, blends perfectly with the anime, sometimes the soundtrack is a bit of the old west style for a change, which is also very well made, the action scenes and especially in drama scenes you are impressed with such art work. It is truly a masterpiece.

Characters (9/10): I liked all the main characters, they are 
interesting, each with its strong and aggressive personality, taking Ed, she is very cute, spike is undoubtedly the most interesting, he seems unconcerned, but is more troubled by his past of the group, he is very skilled in melee combat, besides being a great shooter and also a talent with ships, Faye Valentine is extremely greedy and "selfish" always does everything to get along, but Faye inside is a child who does not know his past or "the place that she should return", she is not good in melee combat, but is good with ships fihts, Faye never had a intense gun battle to I evaluate his ability, but the little I've seen, she's good. Ed is just Ed, she's a hacker child who lived in an "orphanage" before being recruited to the Bebop, Ed is the typical noisy children, and live always hungry, Jet is the oldest of the group, owner of Bebop, who has a history with the police, but due to some events decides to become a bounty hunter, Jet always tries to be show the tough guy, but he cares a lot about his partner Spike, who lives just chasing his past and Jet does not agree with this, prefer Spike go ahead, Jet never had a melee combat, much less in a shootout, the to count on one hand the times he took action without I doubt the 2nd character with less focus i the anime, behind Ed.

Overall (9/10): 
I strongly recommend Cowboy Bebop if you like an anime with lot of action, drama, and a perfect soundtrack, undoubtedly an anime epoch and one of the best I've ever seen.
        

Helpful


read more
