      
    Cowboy Bebop is one of the few series that got recommended to me by both my real life friend and my net friends. I really wanted to like this show, I was so excited to watch this and my expectations were at an all time high which is what led me to dub cowboy bebop as the most disappointing anime ever

There are definitely worse, much worse series out there of course but I never expected much from them. Cowboy bebop however, is one of the most loved anime and everything I heard about it was positive which ultimately led me to expect Cowboy Bebop to

          
        be an masterpiece that cannot be hated by anyone. Boy was I wrong

Well, that's enough of that, let's get on with my review

Story:
Cowboy Bebop is episodic for the most part and what's worse is that it's pretty much in the monster of the week format. There are a lot of standalone episodes in the series that aren't really important but they tried to force it at the end. I didn't like most of the standalone episodes but I hated what they did at the end even more

Characters:
They were able to give the most of the main cast a believable back story which properly explained why they acted the way they did. Not much of Ed's past is revealed though like why she even knew how to hack and what motivates her to act the way she does. They could've inserted that anywhere given how much standalone episodes they have but they didn't

Art and Animation:
I don't really mind the art style but some of the scenes just took me out of the anime because of how terribly animated they were but this can be forgiven because this is a 90s anime. The animation for the wormholes in particular were absolutely nauseous 

Sound:
I'm not a fan of Jazz so I have nothing to say about the music


Enjoyment:
This is one of the few anime where I actually had to push myself just to finish. I usually just drop them but given how highly acclaimed the series I held on unto hope that maybe, just maybe the next episode would be better and it wouldn't bore me out of my mind but no, that didn't happen and when I finished this series, I was just glad that it was finally over and I can finally watch something that I actually like. This series was boring from start to finish, the only exception being episode 8, the sole episode that I like

Overall:
It's not as good as people make it out to be and it failed to live up to my expectations but most importantly, and when I say most importantly, I mean that this is the only part that matters for me, it was boring and I didn't enjoy it which is why I'm going to give this a 6. 

Oh hey I just checked but my overall score for Cowboy Bebop is still a 6 if i take the average of my scores for it's separate aspects. 6.25 if I didn't count my score for the music (I divided it by 4 ofc, I'm not that dumb)

I don't think numbers can properly convey how much you like or dislike a show so take this sentence as my rating:
It still had some bits that I enjoyed but it was really boring as a whole. 

P.S. This is ofc just my opinion so don't send me death threats for this, okay? Cool?
        

Helpful


read more
