            
    The Music: Jazz, blues, acoustic ballads, hard rock, country funk. Yoko Kannos' work is pure genius.(You might also be aware of her work from The Ghost in shell series)

From the opening theme song "Tank", to chase sequence music such as "Bad Dog No Biscuit", to "Space lion" or the awesome "What planet is this?". The music is pitch perfect and suits the setting of the anime elegantly.

The Characters: Cowboy Bebop's characters are as realistic a one can get. What is great about the series is that it maintains the mortality of main characters. This team is not a bunch of all powerful god like super-humans

          
        who can kick anyone's ass simply by their "will power"   (Goku..cough cough..Naruto cough cough...Shonen cough cough)
This team is all too real, they have their problems, they can be overpowered and they can die.

The Voice Actors: I have never seen another anime which compares to the same level of English dub as this this series, okay maybe Baccano!
The voice actors used have done a really really good job. I just cannot picture Spike Spiegel without Steve Blums' voice in my head.
I mean really, one of the best dubs evaaarr.

The Bruce Lee element: Chances are you find Spike Spiegel's fighting style jaw-dropping awesome. Have you ever wondered what what type of style is that?
It's Jeet Kun do which "is an electric/hybrid style of no style and philosophy of life founded by martial artist [The great]Bruce Lee."

That is not the best part. Not only is Spike practitoner of Jeet Kun Do but also follows Bruce Lee's philosophy of life.

Noir-CyperPunk-SpaceWestern: Holy shit, this anime has all three of them. The technology depicted in the anime is fascinating probably because it still uses wires which gives it an interesting aspect because we all know the future will be nothing like that.


Humor: Cowboy Bebop is anything if not funny. The classic Spike and Jet situations are very humorous. Not only that, the recurring characters such as the three old men, and Punch and Judy from the T.V show Big Shot can put a smile to anyone's face.

For me Cowboy Bebop has evolved beyond as an anime. It is a culture.
        

Helpful


read more
