       
    If you've been a fan of anime for any length of time, chances are that you've come across a bunch of shows that people hail as nothing short of masterpieces such as Neon Genesis Evangelion. Now, whether or not those programmes are perfection is entirely up to interpretation but if there's one programme which has been lauded as as nothing short of a masterpiece ever since its creation, it's Cowboy Bebop. Such a lofty title is not without those who question it, and indeed there are people who happen to dislike Bebop for a variety of reasons. I personally don't think that Bebop is a

          
        masterpiece (and I do consider it to be overrated), but I do see where the praise comes from. In fact, I do believe that Bebop deserves most (but not all) of the praise that it gets. Let's go into great lengths to find out why.

When it comes down to the actual story, it's rather disheartening to say that Bebop is lacking. The actual "plot" of the show is easily resolved within 4-5 episodes despite being 26 episodes long, so it might seem like there is a lot of filler. That's not really the case whatsoever, since Cowboy Bebop opts for a mostly episodic approach. With the exception of the 4-5 episodes where the plot moves forward, this is a show that you can jump into from virtually any point and wouldn't really get lost, provided you're familiar with the basic concept and the characters. In that regard, Cowboy Bebop may very well be considered analogous to something like Batman: The Animated Series in terms of both style and approach.

Unfortunately, Cowboy Bebop is prone to the same problems that episodic shows of its nature tend to have. If you don't know what I'm talking about, allow me to fill you in. While episodic programmes are easy to get into if you're a complete newcomer to a particular show, the quality of each episode tends to vary quite a bit. Some episodes are absolutely amazing while other episodes are rather tedious to get through. There's also the matter of certain episodes being a bit formulaic in approach. For example, you'd think that a crew of bounty hunters would at least catch a break every now and then but that's not the case at all. No matter what the situation, it's like the Bebop crew would always be down on their luck despite how skilled each member of the team is.

These might seem like relatively minor problems for a show that has a LOT of merits to stand on, but people often forget that this show is hailed as nothing short of a masterpiece. All it really takes is one relatively mediocre episode for someone with absolutely no prior knowledge of Cowboy Bebop to get a sour impression of this programme. So how would you remedy this? Obviously, you'd watch the episodes in chronological order, right? Uh... not exactly. The first four episodes aren't bad in the slightest, I fucking LOVE them as a matter of fact. But those first four episodes might not be the best introduction to a show lauded as much as Bebop is. If you really want my honest recommendation as to how you should view this programme, I'd say start out with Episode 5 just to get your general impression of the programme. If you like what you see, watch the first four episodes next and then keep watching in chronological order. The reason why you should watch it in that order if you're completely new to Bebop is simple: Episode 5 is a spectacular episode which contains virtually everything that this show is known for so if you don't like Episode 5, Bebop is most likely not going to be your cup of tea and if that's the case, watch Samurai Champloo instead.

With all that ranting out of the way, let's talk characters. The biggest strength that Bebop has when it comes down to its characters is the fact that they're played straight. This might not seem like such an accomplishment, but keep in mind that characters meant to be overacted were more or less the norm back in the 80s/90s so for its time, this was a rather huge deal. Another thing that Bebop's lead cast all share (for better or worse) are dark pasts that with the exception of Faye, they all try to avoid confronting. Why is this a good and a bad thing? On the one hand, a dark past that slowly gets revealed throughout the course of the programme makes for some awesome plot twists and they are given a fair amount of foreshadowing so the reveal doesn't come off as an asspull. HOWEVER... the concept of a ragtag bunch of misfits with each member having a dark past is a trope which has become rather commonplace in anime/manga over the course of recent years so chances are that some might find it rather clich which brings me to another point.

While the leading cast of Bebop certainly does a good job of carrying the story without feeling like cardboard cut-outs a good majority of the time, the fact still remains that they all fall under common archetypes and it gets a little too obvious at times. If you've ever watched a little programme called "Lupin III." you'll be quick to notice that Spike Spiegel bears somewhat of a resemblance to the much beloved Arsene Lupin III with a sense of humour to match (although nowhere near as exaggerated). For that matter, I guess you can say that Jet and Faye are more realistic versions of Daisuke and Fujiko if you want to keep making the comparisons (Jet/Daisuke being the voice of reason and Faye/Fujiko being the "femme fatale" so-to-speak). To be fair, I understand that Lupin III was one of the influences behind Bebop's creation. At the same time, I saw Lupin WAAAAY before I ever watched Bebop so the resemblance is rather uncanny to me. With that said, it's still nice to see an interpretation of Lupin, Daisuke, and Fujiko being played straight.

It's not like they remain static throughout the entire ordeal. With the exception of Edward who's more or less just the quirky and hyperactive computer genius (that still gets a bit of time in the sun regardless), everyone gets a fair amount of development and time on-screen so they're more than just the common archetypes like I've mentioned earlier and in some cases, actually feel like real people rather than you know... characters. With that said, let's talk about secondary/tertiary characters. A good chunk of the episodes introduce a new character whom the Bebop crew ends up dealing with for 20 minutes before their story is resolved by the end of the episode and they are quickly forgotten about. I suppose in that respect, Cowboy Bebop is similar to Mushishi. 

Unlike Mushishi however, Bebop actually does have recurring characters and they do what they do rather well without becoming a distraction. Of course, that still doesn't change the fact that I consider most of them to be like the cabbage merchant from Avatar: The Last Airbender. The standalone characters in Cowboy Bebop on the other hand are hit-and-miss for me. This goes back to the problem that most episodic shows tend to have with varying degrees in quality. Sometimes, I got REALLY attached to the character(s) introduced in one episode and was disheartened to never see them again and other times, the character(s) introduced in another episode were so dull to the point where I felt like the episode was dragging on. 

When it comes down to substance, Bebop falls a little flat so you may be wondering why you should even bother watching it if it's not the epitome of perfection. The answer is very simple: Cowboy Bebop is among the most influential anime of the 90s and its influence can still be seen to this day. In its heyday, Cowboy Bebop achieved a lot of success due to various factors. From its Space Western setting to the well-choreographed action sequences, a soundtrack composed by Yoko Kanno consisting of mostly Jazz and Blues tracks to an amazing English dub where everything was played straight and was allowed to air uncut due to the fact that it was the first anime series that [adult swim] picked up (coincidentally on the same night the network made its debut), it seemed like the odds were stacked in Bebop's favour from the very beginning. Let's not forget the aesthetics because it would be a travesty not to do so. 

For one thing, this is the best-looking TV show from the 90s without a doubt, and to this day it still looks amazing. It's one thing for digital animation to be fluid, but to see that same sort of fluidity with cel animation where each frame was drawn by hand without losing any sort of detail whatsoever really just shows the meticulous amount of time and effort the blokes over at Sunrise put into the art and animation. That's actually kind of funny (in an ironic sort of manner) given that Sunrise was kicked off the animation team for Batman: The Animated Series because of the fact that nearly all the episodes that Sunrise took a part in had to be redone multiple times (or even re-animated in America) because of the fact that virtually everything was off model. I'm guessing that they were basically looking for a way to get back at Bruce Timm and Paul Dini for kicking them off the animation team, so they decided to basically bring out their A-game to their next project which just so happened to be Cowboy Bebop.

Going back to the soundtrack, what I love most about it (aside from the fact that it was composed by Yoko Kanno) is the fact that the OST isn't an afterthought of any kind since there are multiple scenes throughout the show which forgoes dialogue completely and instead rely on the music to actually convey the moment. It's the little things like this that make it so much more difficult for me to pick who's my favourite composer since the only other composer I can think of who'd actually do such a thing would be Kenji Kawai given that there were similar moments in the Ghost in the Shell films. What's more is the fact that a combination of jazz and blues among other such genres really helped give this show a unique flavour which has yet to be mimicked. Say what you will about Samurai Champloo being a carbon copy of Bebop when it comes down to story/characters, but one thing's for certain: Bebop's style is something that Champloo just cannot imitate (and that's a good thing, since Champloo's got its own style which works amazingly well for it).

Another thing that Cowboy Bebop has going for it? An absolutely spectacular English dub which is so good to the point where dub haters generally make an exception for this show. This goes back to how everything was played straight in Bebop from the get-go. In the past, English dubs of anime varied quite a bit in quality. Some dubs like the DiC dub of Sailor Moon changed up the dialogue so heavily edited for content and censored to high heaven to the point where it makes 4Kids' One Piece dub blush. Other times, dubs were actually pretty damn good (such was the case with Neon Genesis Evangelion and Yu Yu Hakusho) but were unfortunately butchered when they aired abroad due to the fact that those shows were airing on children's programming blocks and standards back then were much tighter than they are now. That was never the case with Bebop since it was aired on an adult programming block and as such, it was able to forgo most (if not all) of the censorship regulations during its broadcast on [adult swim]. Aside from that, we also had wonderful voice actors working on this like Steve Blum, Wendee Lee, and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn (fun fact: McGlynn also directed the English dub of Bebop) and a slew of many others, all of whom gave excellent performances.

Aside from the visuals and the audio, what other merits does Bebop have? Well for one thing, its style is something that allowed it to achieve widespread success with Western audiences. It's impossible not to notice that a good majority of anime these days require you to have some pre-existing knowledge of Asian culture in order to properly understand what's going on. Haven't you ever wondered why films like Akira and Ghost in the Shell (and to a lesser degree, Studio Ghibli movies) were huge hits back in the day? It was mostly because these were films that nobody needed any knowledge of Japanese culture to enjoy. Yes, Akira and Ghost in the Shell both took place in Tokyo, but it was really the the concepts, the gloomy atmosphere, the action, the blood, etc. which drew in Western audiences. It was taking place in Japan, and yet it didn't really feel like Japan at all outside of naming conventions, but that's a minor detail in comparison to everything else. It helps that unlike the former two, Bebop actually had virtually all the signs, posters and such in-universe written in English rather than Japanese in the original dub. Don't even get me started on the subtle cultural references and its film noir overtones because if I did, you'd be here for hours reading this review.

So when you combine all these things together, it's no secret as to why Cowboy Bebop is as lauded as it is now. I can certainly see why it wouldn't really be everyone's cup of tea (especially given some of the flaws I mentioned earlier). Regardless, its influence can't be denied. For all its worth, Cowboy Bebop is certainly a show that deserves most (but not all) the praise it gets. I get the feeling that if it had more of a plot to it and didn't rely so much on being badass and awesome to make people forgive its lack of a plot, it would definitely receive more praise than it already gets. The stage was set perfectly, so I question why Wantanabe and the rest of the Bebop team decided to opt for a mostly episodic nature when the ones where the "plot" actually progresses were nothing short of spectacular. Oh well, I guess it's too late to find out why... unless Wantanabe decides to do to Bebop what George Lucas did to Star Wars. Thankfully, Wantanabe seems to have more integrity than that.

Anyway, that's it for my first review on this site. Please be gentle, senpai.... (>/////
        

Helpful


read more
