      
    Warning :Minor Spoilers ahead
Ok, it's been a while since i saw this anime in top 30 anime list. Looking at the year it was aired I wasn't really interested to watch it. But after some friends recommend it to me and after I read sooo many reviews that give ten to Cowboy Bebop, I decided to watch it. At that time I was tired of animes that show too much moe, ecchi, and other stuff and I'll try the claasic ones. And.. It was..

Story : (7/10)
Ok, it has very interesting setting, a futuristic world where people have started living in other planets. Our MCs here,

          
        are bounty hunters who have their own unique past. Interesting setting right? Unfortunately, the execution of the story can't deliver it to the audience very well. Cowboy Bebop is  too episodic which almost each episode has each own story. And from this episodic episodes, huge conflicts are only in 5 episodes or something ( if I remember it correctly). I wouldn't mind if other episodes are exciting, but most of it are flat and seems useless. You can even throw some episodes away and it doesn't affect the main story. Watching Cowboy Bebop makes me tired of waiting about Spike's past and what will happen to him and Vicious. I have to watch some uninteresting and some useless episodes before i got to see it. It makes me bored. well, but Spike's story was amazing so I think it's worth waiting.   

Art : (8/10)
Art is very good. I like the character designs. Animation was amazing and makes me wonder if it really was made in 90's.

Sound : (8/10)
Nice OST

Enjoyment : (7/10)
Like I said before, it is hard to enjoy Bebop because some episodes seem useless and feel like filler. Some episodes are just plain and don't excite me. I can really enjoy only a few episodes.

Overall : (7/10)
Overall, 7. It was interesting, but it wasn't exciting. Main concept is very good, but too many plain episodes. Maybe because it's classic, some rate it very high (mostly 10). But I don't want too rate it according to the time it was made. I won't divide anime between classic or not. I was also confused to rate it whether 7 or 8. I chose 7 finally. I think it deserves 8. But to me, 8.83 seems little overrated. But well, for those retro anime fans, I'm sorry. People have different opinion sometimes, right?  
        

Helpful


read more
