         
    Cowboy Bebop is the result of a perfectly mixed drink. On the surface, its a futuristic space western about a ragtag group of bounty hunters during their adventures and misadventures. If you take a closer look, however, you will see sprinkled throughout a perfect mix of genres: dashes of horror, comedy, crime, romance, tragedy, philosophy, action, and parody all combined into one neat package. Each episode is a little different from the others by following the same cast of characters from all facets and angles. With each unique episode comes its own strain of music; from tribal drums and chants to electronic pulses. And yet

          
        each song and episode somehow always fills you with the emotions that come with its namesake: bebop, blues and jazz. Despite airing around 15 years ago, Cowboy Bebop has continued to hold its place as one of the greatest anime shows ever to be created, a fact cemented by its vast array of awards and the legacy that followed in its wake. 
	The brew that is Cowboy Bebop gets is aroma and flavor from its cast of characters. At first glance, they are a strange group of characters that are only in bounty hunting for the quick cash so they can eat. As the series progresses, the characters are slowly revealed and their intentions known. You first think Spike to be a slacker who does the bare minimum on the job, only to learn later of his past in the criminal underground and the loss that killed him emotionally. Jet is the gruff authority figure until you realize he cares deeply for the crew as family. Faye is your typical wild and free female lead but only because her deep set tragic background has forced her to push away any sort of relationship. Ed is an amazing hacker prodigy who has no rhyme or reason until you learn of her past and deprived childhood. The diverse casting, build up, and execution provides a strong set of personalities that the viewer is easily able to get behind and root for.
	This blend of a show solidifies itself a diverse soundtrack and fluid animation, even by todays standards. Each of the 26 episodes have a certain spunk to them, whether they be comedy or tragedy. Some argue that one seasons worth is hardly enough to really flesh out what this series could have been. While this may be true, this series does a splendid job of mixing itself into one strong, dynamic, and satisfying experience that caps itself off just at the peak of its ability.

Helpful


read more
