      
    I hear so often from ppl saying Cowboy Bebop is the "absolute best" anime ever made. maybe 10 years ago, but Cowboy Bebop is soooo far from that title now. So my post here will be blatantly contrasted from this point of view to compensate, rather than being more of a middle ground review that i otherwise might have written.

I think most ppl are still inflating the ratings on this series due to it being a landmark or a breakthrough. it can hardly be argued to keep it in that position after so may great other animes have come out. Take Samurai Champloo alone, which

          
        is done by the same director, has the same format, and even uses the same type of character molds. that is clearly way more amazing (not just cz of modern graphics but in many many other respect as well) than CB. 

 It's not "so cool" it's as typical as an anime can get. People say just chilling out in space, and doing fun episodic things is so amazing and novel, but it's totally not! it's the most overdone setting ever. I just don't understand why ppl think it's so new. Despite all that, if a series is still enjoyable, then hey, what works works, but Cowboy Bebop didn't blow me away in this department either. My level of enjoyment was pretty average, if not below. 

and no, the charcter development is not outstanding either. many other animes do a way better job. that buff older guy is hardly developed. only the girl is somewhat interesting. the younger kid is just weird that it makes her seem a non-person. Spice and Wolf, K-On, Lucky Star, Samurai Champloo, even Bleach for many of the characters (not all) have better character development than Cowboy Bebop.

setting original? give me a break! space travelers. bounty hunters? how more commonplace can you get?
(metroid)

space :
legend of galactic heroes, stargate, 

no plot, character driven (supposedly):
samurai champloo, lucky star, k-on

bounty:
one piece, star wars


Samurai Champloo has a similar format as this but actually IS "so cool". the atmosphere, the aura, the music actually is great. cowboy bebop is a pale attempt that doesn't cut it the way Samurai Champloo does

cowboy bebop fans, there is no way this series deserves to be on the pedestal that it has been placed on surprisingly. There's nothing unique about this, there's nothing ultra novel about it. Why do you insist that it is?

Helpful


read more
