          
    Frankly, I'm not sure how I can do a show like Cowboy Bebop justice in reviewing it in such tiny space. I think Cowboy Bebop is absolutely a product of genius. I think genius minds conceived and executed the concepts, story, and production of this series, and I believe it will always mean a great deal to me. I say this with the utmost concern for nostalgia and trying to disappate it, judging the show by its merits and not for the time at which I watched it and how radical it was at the time, but rather for what it continues to be based

          
        on its true merits. 

For one, I can see why others may dislike elements of the show, but those are the same elements I think are justified. The show is episodic, yes, but rather than being a bunch of completely unrelated adventures that just feature the core cast in different situations, the episodes are more like a series of short little films that each reveal a little more of the bigger picture, not necessarily of the main underlying plot, but something much more important, which is the world and atmosphere, the environment and attitudes which are pervasive in the show. The very lives of the characters are "episodic", but an episode rarely ends without having made some headway in unveiling more of the tapestry of this world the characters live in. 

The main plot, the plot of Spike's past with the Red Dragon, that's something that keeps together the threads, but ultimately only exemplifies- well, perhaps more than that, epitomizes- the grander attitude of the entire work. Given more time to breath, perhaps a more traditionally strong narrative would  have worked its way out, which is probably the only flaw I can find with this show. However, it's barely a flaw, because it serves as a great and tragic sword of Damocles over the throne of the viewer. However, unlike that sword, it does certainly strike, and surely, and with consequence. 

The production values are quite breathtaking, some still by today's standards. The music is especially spellbinding. The show is very stylish, and so more cynical folks may be lured into believing the show is "style over substance", but the style becomes part of its substance, much in the way a Tarintino film both indulges in and skewers pop art culture. 

It's a show that feels almost as new every new time I watch as it did the first time. Sure, now I've been exposed to several anime that closely rival its greatness. But none of them quite manage to match or surpass it. 

Cowboy Bebop is a stellar series. Perhaps the most representative of what anime can accomplish, It is both entertaining and provocative. It's a rousing jazzy ballad of the bizarre and the sorrowful. It's a must see for anyone.
        

Helpful


read more
