      
    There is not much that can be said about Cowboy Bebop that has not already been said. It is considered a classic among classics, and one of the best anime ever created. It's story, art, soundtrack, and characters are truly beloved by many. I have yet to find a person who does not agree with them.

Story:
Cowboy Bebop does not have an inherent, flowing story like many other anime. It is mostly episodic, yet still manages to be story (and character, but we'll get to that later) driven. The story revolves around a group of bounty hunters in a dystopian future, searching for bounties to make

          
        a living. I will admit that you may become disengaged toward the middle of the series, but it quickly recovers with several exceptional episodes later on. The premise seems uneventful, and when you think about it, not much really happens in the way of story progression. And yet, the plot-lines are captivating, well created and ultimately satisfying. For this, I give Cowboy Bebop an 8 for story.

Art:
The art is, to be very honest, nothing unique. It has the same 90's anime look that you've seen, but that is not to say it isn't beautiful in it's own right. The design is solid, with nothing looking out of place. While the art style is not original, it has the best execution of that style I've seen. The animation is consistently fluid and impressive, especially during the fighting scenes, in which Spike's movements look amazing. The show just looks good. I give Cowboy Bebop an 8 for art.

Sound:
The soundtrack of Cowboy Bebop is often hailed as one of the best, with jazzy tunes mixed in with slow classical compositions. If there is one thing you cannot deny, it is that it's soundtrack is refreshingly varied. However, at points I found that the style of music failed to accentuate the moment at hand. While I found this distracting, the overall song choice is exceptional. As nobody can deny, Cowboy Bebop's soundtrack is among the best in not only any anime, but many shows in general. They would agree that the soundtrack deserves a 9.

Character:
If there is one thing exceptional about Cowboy Bebop, it is it's three dimensional characters. I am conflicted, even, to call them characters, because they are just so real. Their drives, their conflicts and their pasts are executed seamlessly and exceptionally. Spike, Jet, Faye and Ed are not a means to an end, they are not plot mechanics, they are an insight into actual personalities and how they would react in the dystopian future of the world of Cowboy Bebop. I can imagine, in some parallel dimensional, that these people could exist. They are not caricatures, they are convincingly real characters that give Cowboy Bebop a 9 in the character department.

Enjoyment:
If there is anything Cowboy Bebop does right, it is that it makes you feel invested and immersed in the world. The culmination of all the previous aspects is a show that is quite simply fun to watch. In the enjoyment department, that is a great thing. I give Cowboy Bebop a 9 for enjoyment.

Overall:
Cowboy Bebop is a classic, there is no denying. The noir genre has had many great contributions, and I believe Cowboy Bebop is of the best of those. I would have given it a 10 had it not been for some minor hiccups. I don't really think anything deserves a ten that I've personally encountered. But I degress, as this is definitely one of the most influential and impressive anime ever created.

I give Cowboy Bebop a 9 out of 10!
        

Helpful


read more
