           
    At 2071, Earth is not the only habitable planet in the Solar System. With the advent of hyperspace technology comes new rules, eras, laws, law-breakers and law-enforcers. Aboard the shuttle Bebop, bounty hunters Spike Spiegel and Jet Black struggle, bounty after bounty, with unruly shipmates, mutated-lobsters and vengeful old-timers from the past, all while keeping the Bebop afloat.

My reasons as to why Cowboy Bebop is a must see:
1. Spike Spiegel
2. The Real Folk Blues soundtrack, and;
3. Session 5: the Ballad of the Fallen Angels

Cowboy Bebop is a straight-forward anime. Spanning 26 episodes called sessions, Cowboy Bebop boasts of great character designs, fluid animation, splendid voice

          
        acting and one hell of a soundtrack.

Cowboy Bebop is synonymous with great music. Each session is entitled with reference to a musical concept or title, and each session is buoyed by the ever present tunes and strains of jazz and blues, composed by the great Yoko Kanno.

Animation-wise, the series has outstanding visuals all throughout its entire season. Movement and action are beautifully designed (most especially Spike's fight scenes using jeet kune do) and top-notch. Those who prefer the visuals over the everything else will not be disappointed.

Combine great visuals, with great music, plus great characters and great story, this is one anime every anime lover should watch (See how many greats I used in just one sentence??)

My only qualm with the series, a qualm that's quite insignificant, really, is the way the characters' backstory are never really fully explored. Conclusions and closures are, by turns, done during the first and last half of the season. Though all sessions are still enjoyable and comedic, it would have been nice if sessions devoted to the main characters story arcs were explored.

Still, Cowboy Bebop is one-giant step above other animes, one that should not be missed. Grab/borrow/rip/steal a copy and you've got yourself one big bounty
        

Helpful


read more
