        
    The nonchalant Spike, The righteous Jet, The sneaky Faye, and witty Edward....

These beloved characters have in-printed themselves onto my heart slowly but surely.

CowBoy Bebop is an anime that was recommended to me by various sources. Knowing that the anime was about 14 years old, I was hesitant to start it up. Eventually, with the consistent nagging of my buddies and fellow anime fan, I started Cowboy Bebop.

Took me three days to marathon it, and boy what a ride it was!!

Story:

There only has been a few animes that were in a episodic style that I really enjoyed. Mushi shi was one, xxxholic was another, and I

          
        guess we can count Tsubasa chronicles as another. Besides those cherished anime, I have been left unimpressed by that style of storytelling. Little did I know that cowboy Bebop was the revolutionary anime that introduced this style to the animation world. Not only did it introduced, but it was executed perfectly most of the time.

There were episodes that I could have done without, some of the earlier episodes to be specific, and few random episodes in the mid section of the anime. This is not a problem since most the episodes were great and done a very aesthetically pleasing manner. 

The story in these episodes were less about plot and more about characters. These mini stories helped us understand and get to know the main characters in a unique manner. Nothing was handed to us, we had to decipher a lot of their backstory episode by episode, and we had to piece the stories ourselves.

In the end, however, everything came in a crash, and the entirety of these small plots came into a flashy dystopic climax!

Art/Animation:

The animation was flawless. Even without considering that this a show made 14 years ago, I was thoroughly impressed with the fluidity of every episodes. All of the fighting sequences left me breathless, and kept me at the edge of my feet!

The character designs reminded me a lot of Samurai Champloo...and I was pleasantly surprised to read that there are of similar origins, same director. 

I will add that this anime, out of all the animes that I've watched so far, had the greatest amount of diversity in terms of characters. It was not all just Japanese people who conquered and repopulated the universe but also Indians, Arabs, Africans, and Americans ( thinking of a certain cowboy hehehe)
I really enjoyed seeing this diversity because that is more representative of how the world actually is.

A lot of anime directors nowdays should take not of how to budget and direct these episodes, CB showed the way. This is how you get it done guys!

Sound:

Just like every anime review that I do, I stress the importance of sound/bgm as a contributor of the making of a masterpiece. Without a great accompany soundtrack, an anime cannot be called a masterpiece in my eyes. Sound sets the atmosphere faster than any of the senses that we have. It is of the utmost importance to have the best compatible soundtrack.

CowBoy Bebop doesn't disappoint on this end either. The soundtrack is strong. It is a mixture of different sounds from the sixties, a lot of jazzy records, and soothing blues. The soundtrack really contributes to the effects that CB is portraying, the smoothness of Spike, the sneakiness of Faye, and the tough righteousness of Jet are all represented well through the music. There are couple of pieces that I will later try to find for personal enjoyment. Really smooth soundtrack. 

Characters:

This anime is made by and for the characters. We don't have any ingenious plot line, or any non-fulfilling fan service...what we have is plenty of character development. Obviously, this is going to be the biggest part of the review since I will discuss in detail my opinion of each character.


Edward:      Is this a person a girl or a boy? The ambiguity of her gender plagued my thoughts throughout the show. Anytime I was convinced that she was a girl, someone would come along and challenge those beliefs. In all practicality, she was probably a girl. I really expected a lot from her when she was introduced, she seemed witty and smart, but also caring. She, however, did not live up to my expectations, probably becoming the least of the main characters in CB.

Faye:     I didn't enjoy her at first. She seemed too snotty for her own good. Usually characters of her type bring nothing but randomness and chaos to a story line, and I've never been a fan of that. She did surprise me around mid series however. She was a lot more deep than what I gave her credit for. Without delving into any spoilers, I found myself empathizing with her emotional distraught about her past life and ended up becoming a big fan of hers. I wish that she would have had more episodes where she was a bit more honest with her feelings, the tough girl act can only take you so far, but due to the 26 episode limit, I was thoroughly satisfied by the end with this character's development.

Jet:         My favorite character of the series. Jet is a balding middle age gentleman with a huge biceps and a big personality to follow along with it. At first, I thought he was going to stay one dimensional, usually characters of his type are not examined enough in anime, but again CB surprised me by giving me a glimpse of who Jet was in the past, and some of his reasoning. We saw him grow as he finally decided to not look to the past anymore, and I related a lot with that. A lot of the time, in my personal life, I've been tied to the past, whether it was a past version of myself, a past friend, a past job or school...a past lover....I found myself always looking back and reminiscing and it hasn't been until recently that I decided to put the past where it belongs, learn from it, and strive for the future. I love Jet because his development is an incarnation of the feelings that I've also developed. His friendship with Jet was unorthodox but really enjoyable to see. Sometimes, the people with opposite personalities find ways to become the closest of friends. Their constant bickering was like classical music to my ears, and their silence was brutally sad. They seemed to be really good at synchronizing with each other.

Spike:         The main character of the show, and the man with few words. Spike is a really interesting character because of his nonchalant attitude. It is really enjoyable to see him in action, he is so smooth in his fighting style that you are surprised by his efficiency. He is one smooth mamajama. His story intrigued me the most, I was really curious to know what his relationship to Julia was and why she was so important. Unfortunately, by the end, I didn't see why Julia was so important. It could have been better to maybe have separate episodes with just her, so we could understand better and empathize with who she was. Maybe it wasn't the director's intent for us to understand Julia but rather understand the emotional connection that Spike had with her. If that is the case, then yes, I did get that Spike really loved her...to the point that he would have died a thousand times to be with her. Spike was always indifferent to most situations, but any time Vicious, and Julia was mentioned he would go into ape mode or get moody. Nothing is wrong with that, but I would have liked further knowledge about that story line. I think if I rewatched the series, I would not recall these issues. All in all, I do like Spike as a character, he's funny, witty, and a good person at heart. A classy main character.


Side characters: Most of the side characters were just introduced and left in the same episode, very few carried over to other episode, and I guess that's the point of the episodic format. CB really did a good job of fleshing out these characters during the one shot episodes and making them deep and relatable. This wasn't achieved in all of the episodes, but it was well done in most.  

Enjoyment:

The episodes that I enjoyed....I enjoyed to its fullest extent, but the ones that I didn't like were really a drag. Those dragging episodes though were mostly in the first ten episodes. Overall, I really enjoyed the anime. 

I originally gave this anime an 8/10, which is a decent grade, but after taking into consideration the time period when this anime was made, I cannot downgrade the effort and care that was put into making it. I boosted it up to an 9/10...aren't I merciful? :) haha

Well, the anime wasn't the masterpiece that people made it out to be, I came in with super high expectations, but this was a great anime. I thoroughly enjoyed it and I recommend anyone with a normal concentration span to try CowBoy Bebop out.

Helpful


read more
