           
    I,ve been hearing a lot about how Cowboy Bebop is so unoriginal and that there are way more better anime out there but they are wrong, there is nothing else to it they are just plain wrong and here's why.

Story 9/10 this part I can understand a little bit because the show has an episodic manner and then it get's into a story at the end and some people say that the rest of the show was a waste but if the show was about the characters trying to get to the end the show would have been much worse everyone says that all the

          
        episodes are the same but when I rewatched it I realised that none of the episodes were the same,there was this one user who said that all the episodes were like an example that he gave and he perfectely described 1 episode, none of the other episodes were like that.

10/10 The art is also one of the most outstanding things about the show, all of it was so smooth and interesting and everything was slightly shaded to compliment the tone of the show.

Sound 10/10 The sound and the music are beyond perfect for the show because the hole show is in the future but the nice jazzy guitars and harmonicas make the show set like a western and they go perfect with the show. Not to mention the opening is kick ass.

Characters 10/10 A lot of people say that the characters are cliche and boring but they,re all good, Everyone says that Spike is your average cool guy but why is that bad? You litterally just insulted someone by saying that they,re cool and Spike is more than just cool he is skilled at martiwl arts and he has many funny and cool one liners to make his character loveable. Jet is good but people say that he doesn't have character devellopment but Cowboy Bebop is not about character devellopment, it,s about peopke who have been through character devellopment and they are just living out their lives.

Enjoyment 10/10 The show has many interesting stories anda ridiculous amount of amazing scenes the action is cool the one liners are epice and/or funny and the show never lets you down on any episode.

Overall 10/10 Cowboy Bebop is the best anime of all time and if you don't think so then you have shit taste.

Helpful


read more
