          
    Cowboy Bepop.

There's something about this anime that sets itself apart from everything else out there. From its amazing atmosphere to its near-flawless character design, this anime is a surefire way to make a boring weekend a lot less boring. I had heard so much about this show from many different sources, but I had never tried to watch it. Only because of a sudden urge to watch anime was I able to fully grasp how good this show is.

Let me just say that the intro is definitely something to drool over like some mindless fanboy. And I don't say that often. A good intro may

          
        not affect the story, but it can really draw in viewers.

Take a look for yourself (Don't worry, it's just an intro. No spoilers here. I DO have a heart, you know.)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qqvsUs-iQvg

SOUND:

9/10

The soundtrack really is unique, and I haven't seen anything else quite like it. It can go from smooth and classy to quick and dangerous in a matter of a few seconds and you wouldn't know what hit you. The soundtrack alone is a good reason why you should watch this anime.

ART:

9/10

As for the art? It might be a bit outdated, but... you know, that's because it came out in 1998. But even for its release date, it showed an exceptional amount of care and passion. The little details were what drew me in, not to mention the downright awesome fight scenes. It's clear there was a lot of dedication that went into this anime and I applaud the makers. Kudos. 

STORY: (Obvious spoilers.)

10/10

While the story might seem everywhere to some people, it's clearly meant to be that way. Each story arc offered a unique setting and progression. From an intelligent dog comparable to a human being to a pathogen bomb that has the ability to wipe out an entire population on a planet, you're in for a ride, folks. But I don't want to spoil any more for you. Just know that you'll be missing out if you don't watch this anime.

CHARACTERS: (Yes. Take all of my virtual yes.)

The character design and progression is something I rarely see in shows nowadays, excluding some of the more successful shows out there. Those are successful for a reason. I particularly love the smooth personality of the main character, and the uncle-like friendliness (While still possessing copious amounts of badassary) of his companion. There are a few more notable characters, but I'll leave them to you to discover.

ENJOYMENT?:

Yes. I enjoyed it. If you haven't already figured that out, then you have now. 10/10, would fangasm over again.

Nuff' said, really.

OVERALL:

10/10.

Watch this anime. You won't regret it.

Helpful


read more
