       
    My First Review ever so bare with me

Well I'm not even going to sugarcoat the fact that Cowboy Bebop was a big letdown for me. I was expecting so much from this series due to everyone hyping it up. But, I was left with underdeveloped characters, beyond idiotic actions from characters, and no one listening to Jet.... EVER. Despite all of this, there were some redeeming factors to this animes such as the music, funny scenarios, and just overall enjoyment.

Story:7
This shows all about the realtionship of a crew consisting of Spike, Ed, Jet, Faye, and little ole' Ein. Just a couple of "bounty hunters" (and

          
        a dog) going from bounty to bounty, and how their pasts sort of catches up with them. Nothing special here really, It's whatever.

Art:8
I'm going to say this first off, I'm not the best judge when it comes to things such as art and animation but there were no problems with either of those in this anime. Pretty solid overall in my opinion.

Sound:10
This would be the entire anime's strongpoint in my opinion. The names of the episodes would be based off of genres, songs, and albums (ex: Asteroid Blues & Ballad of the Fallen Angels) and the music in each episodes sorta correlates to name of the episodes. The soundtrack mainly consists of Jazz and Blues music. These songs/insturmentals always added to the scenes and made them better than they actually were. A fight scene was turned into an AMAZING scene and a sad scene turned into a HEART-WRENCHINGLY SAD SCENE. The music was what made me keep watching this anime.

Character:6
Now his was the weak point of the anime for me. There were so many times where I wanted to know more about the characters like Ed or Ein, or Jet. There was literally no info given about Ed and Ein, they got no love. They were there to lighten up the series yet I know nothing about them. Jet was like the overprotective father of the group and I like that, but NO ONE AND I MEAN NO ONE EVER LISTENED TO HIM. Dang it as so annoying, like there would be CLEAR danger in their way and Jet would give some sound advice but all Faye and Spike wanted to do was die with a bang like HOLY. And Spike was EXTREMELY irrational and idiotic  to the point where it was eye aching. The reason for his innjuries 100% of the time was because he just went on his stupidity, no not instict, but stupidity. His character was cool at first but after a while he reminded me of a rebelious teenager who's overdramatic. Faye was alright, her back story was kinda sad but they explained so quickly I had to deep connection with her. Then there's Jet, not much too say really. He gets one episode of backstory for himself and done. We do get a LITTLE and when I say little i mean minuscule insight from other episodes about his past life, but again that's it.

Enjoyment:8 
Now even though the characters pissed me off, they did have their badass moments. Especially with his knack to use the environment to his advantage and his smooth fighting style. The funny moments with Ein and Ed were also a nice addition. Again, those moments really lightened up the show when it was getting depressing and dark. Also the conversations between people were also pretty hilarious to say the least

Overall: 7.5
Although I did get irritated at A LOT of moments in Cowboy Bebop it was still fairly enjoyable. The music also stepped the anime up a notch on my scale because of how good it was at enhancing the scene rather than take you away from it or kill it entirely. There no problems with art and animation either. In my opinion, this show doesn't live up to the hype in the slightest, It was underwhelming throughout the entire series in my opinion. Although, that ending was pretty sad. If you want to go watch this classic, go ahead, just don't go in with high expectations. REMEMBER NO OF THIS IS FACT, IT'S ALL MY OPINION.

P.S. I may have been a little nit picky with this anime but it was because I actually wanted to look at all aspects of the anime while watching it instead of just blindly watching it and giving it a 10 without knowing exactly what I enjoyed/disliked.
        

Helpful


read more
