        
    Cowboy Bebop is considered by many to be one of the best and with good reason.

First of all, Keiko Nobumato (writer of Cowboy Bebop) should feel proud for creating such a wonderful cast of characters.  The show is set in the distant future and follows the many exploits of a crew of bounty hunters.  The shows central character is Spike Spiegel, a young man whos slow to exhibit emotion yet quick to rush into danger.  His partner is Jet Black, an x-cop who seems to be the wiser of the two.   Faye Valentine, a strong, confident female bounty hunter, joins

          
        the crew a few episodes in, followed several episodes later by a young, energetic kid named Ed, who at first I thought would just end up being an utter annoyance.  Instead, she succeeded on many occasions to bring a smile to my face.  What Nobumato did here was give his viewers a cast of  characters they will never forget.  Whether it be their constant arguing, incessant bantering, or occasional sympathizing, seeing these misfits interact with one another is reason enough to watch.                            

Though there isn't much in terms of an overlying plot, most of Cowboy Bebops 26 episodes wont fail to satisfy, with plot lines ranging from truly heart-warming to downright dark and dreary.  Instead of bombarding viewers with plot twist after plot twist, Nobumato decided to utilize a different kind of twist.  Throughout the series, he reveals bits and pieces about the characters lives before becoming bounty hunters, stuff that the other characters didn't even know.  Its these episodes where Cowboy Bebop really shines, especially the ones dealing with Spike and a mysterious man by the name of Viscous, the only truly recurring villain in the show.  Though not much concrete is provided about their past relations, their scenes together are some of the highest emotional points of the series.

Unfortunately, I have little  time left to tell you about Bebops slick, stylish fight scenes as well as its robust soundtrack, a great mix of country, jazz, and rock n roll.  Because of all this and the shows wonderfully endearing cast, I see no reason why you shouldn't check it out.  I honestly think it's one of the most broadly appealing Anime around.

Visual Style- A great example of just how amazing a Japanese Anime can look, all the while never letting the animations get too ridiculous.

Sound- The Japanese voice-acting is superb, and the soundtracks mix of country, jazz, and rock works surprisingly well.

Characters- The amazing cast and their many scenes together make the entire experience well worth it.

Plot- Theres really no overlying plot, but most of the episodes still manage to pull you in, especially the ones dealing with the characters pasts.  Some of the episodes do end quite abruptly though.

Lasting Appeal- A wonderful accomplishment that will stick with you for years to come.  Truly one of the best.
        

Helpful


read more
