          
    &quot;The work which becomes a new genre itself will be called Cowboy Bebop&quot;

Cowboy Bebop is one of the few shows which can actually be called Epic.  Not an epic such as the Homeric poetry but epic as Webster&rsquo;s Dictionary says &ldquo;extending beyond the usual or ordinary especially in size or scope.&rdquo;  It&rsquo;s a word that shouldn&rsquo;t be used lightly.  Cowboy Bebop is the standard by which Anime should be molded after.  It achieves near perfection in creation and at the end there is a feeling of fulfillment.  No other anime has a more complete and satisfying ending.

The story element is

          
        where many great animes get their strength from but Cowboy Bebop is actually weakest here.  The story is very individualized, rarely do the events of one episode effect other episodes.  Yet despite this &ldquo;episodic&rdquo; design, actual plot is occasionally used and by the end it feels like the plot has always been a part of the show like a shadow that had just been noticed.  

In other anime I can&rsquo;t think of too many action scenes that can come even close to those in Cowboy Bebop.  Motion is almost always drawn smoothly and action scenes are incredible to watch.  As Spike says, &ldquo;like water.&rdquo;  The artists did a superb job in being able to create a certain mood through lightening and the vibrant/dull of colors.  The artwork altogether is incredible and visually everything feels natural.  

The sound was particularly enjoyable.  There was a good amount of jazz music which fits Bebop well due to the uncertainty which is the foundation of jazz music.  I wasn&rsquo;t too fond of the opening theme though(I&rsquo;m probably the only one).  But in eps 5 near the end and at the conclusion of eps 26, the music is beyond incredible.  It honestly speaks about the show in ways words could never describe and help elevate Bebop to levels rarely achieved.  But like I said, for some reason I hate the opening theme.  

Because the story is sort of &ldquo;weak&rdquo; the characters are the driving force of the show.  This is where Bebop is made.  The characters are all vastly different and don&rsquo;t really fit any particular clich&eacute;s, which is quite refreshing.  All you need to know is that you won&rsquo;t find more original and more entertaining characters anywhere else.

If this anime doesn&rsquo;t speak to you or inspire you, don&rsquo;t worry because it is extremely fun to watch.  Bebop won&rsquo;t put you in stitches for the full 20 minutes nor will it try to force you to enjoy the show.  Instead it does it&rsquo;s own thing and you can&rsquo;t help but smile while watching.  The Bebop crew is just pure fun and I guarantee you will enjoy it.

Conclusion:  Cowboy Bebop is not my #1 personal favorite show, but it is the most complete and perfect anime out there.  It is in all sense of the word, A Masterpiece.  Bebop may not be exactly what you want for an ideal story anime, but in no way does that take away from it.  The light hearted and random episodes are fun all the way through.  The characters are very likeable and create a great atmosphere.  The visual style and sound combine with the other elements in a perfect blend to make a perfect show (or as close as you can get).  This may not be your favorite show but you will not be disappointed and at the very least you will finish with a smile feeling as satisfied as if you finished eating a great meal.

Helpful


read more
