            
    *Note just because I give it all 10s does not mean I believe that this is perfect. I just believe it is a masterpiece and I enjoyed it immensely."

The 90s were a great time for anime. There was  DBZ, Yu Yu Hakusho, EVA, Sailor Moon etc. all were very good shows in their own right and garnered millions of fans worldwide. I am not here to talk about those, I here to talk about Cowboy Bebop, a timeless classic which was probably the reason why many people became interested in anime. Ah, I remember staying up until midnight, waiting for Cowboy Bebop to show

          
        up on Toonami. Ah the memories...............but I digress.

Story- Now the revolves around a crew of space bounty hunters, whos main goal is to amass a large amount of money so they can live lavishly. It starts out with the main protagonist, Spike Speigel and his older buddy/pilot of their ship, Jet. Eventually, their crew expands to about 2 other people and also a dog. They go around the galaxy going on a bunch of crazy and wild adventures.

The show is episodic. It is not like one hugeeee long arc about one thing; each episode focuses on a specific adventure that the crew goes on, or them trying to deal with their past. Sometimes you will see Spike battle a fat, sociopathic killer with amazing strength, and other times you will see characters reflect upon their past as a means of catharsis. But, at the very end you will witness one of the greatest endings in anime history. Ask anyone who has seen Cowboy Bebop, they will agree.

Art- The art was very good for its time, and it even holds up well today. It is very crisp and you can tell from the detailed character drawings and ship designs. The show is also very "western," themed, as in like Cowboys from the olden days. 

Sound- The soundtrack is amazing, it is a unique blend of jazz, blues, music-box etc. It is very eclectic to say the least. It is worthy of its widespread acclaim.

Dub over sub for this one. This only do to one person, Steve Blum one of the greatest voice actors of all time. His performance as Spike is what made him what he his today.

Character- It is probably one of the more popular casts in anime. First you have Spike, cynical, sarcastic bad ass with a shady past. Next, you have Jet Black, pilot of the Bebop and a grizzled ex-police officer. Third, you have Faye, sexy, and manipulative con woman. Fourth, you have Ed, the 
androgynous, whacky computer hacker. Lastly, we have the dog Ein, a Pembroke Welsh Corgi. This seemingly mis-matched group of rag tags, could not be more perfectly put together in my eyes.

Overall I give this show a 10/10  because it in all honesty it is a great show to watch. I will say that some people may find it  to be boring, so don't  watch it if you don't like shows with a focus on dialogue. This is a show that you should recommend to anime newcomers.
        

Helpful


read more
