            
    This was the first anime I ever watched that made me completely re-evaluate what was possible in an animated medium. Not only that but despite the improvements in computers and technology that have allowed anime to become more visually astouding, cowboy bebop managed to achieve the same levels of detail and motion of modern anime over a decade ago.

Do not approach cowboy bebop as being anime. It is animated, but really it is more like live action then a cartoon. The creators of this show did not skimp when it came to fully animating fight scenes, space battles, or even some of the more idle

          
        moments. There is never a moment where footage is recycled or cheesy backgrounds go flying by while characters strike a pose, nor are there any chibi or emoted moments.

Cowboy Bebop is also best if not rushed through, there IS an overall story arc, but most of the episodes are self contained, and do not really require rapid succession. Also when you complete this anime you will surely feel that the show is concluded, and that a sequel or serialization of the series is unnecessary. This show is good enough to re-watch and still find the same enjoyment as the first time you saw it.

Usually its difficult to fully decide how to rank anime since there are many ways to do it, such as by overall plot (i HATE cop-out endings which are typical of most shows.. curse you school rumble!), quality of art/animation/ visual excellence, music, voice talent, dub (if applicable), characters/character development, and something that is sometimes neglected is depth (how much do you have to allready know to fully enjoy an anime). However, Cowboy Bebop excels in every one of these areas, so it makes it easy for me to give this show 10's across the board, it truly is a masterpiece, and is not as difficult as EVA to fully appreciate, as it does not require you to wikipedia info on Jewish Mythology, Kabalism, Sephiroths, ect. and can be watched in English without sacrificing any aspect of the show, which also makes this show a great candidate for newbies to serious (non serialized) anime.

ON A SPECIAL NOTE:
Yoko Kanno is quite possibly one of the greatest film composers, and wrote a ludicrous amount of FULL LENGTH music for this show. If the quality of the anime isn't enough to get your rocks off there are about 8 cd's worth of top notch music, (mostly jazz, blues, and gospel) all origional work composed for this series which I also recommend to you audiophiles. The Seatbelts are awesome...
        

Helpful


read more
