       
         Cowboy Bebop is a household name to anime fans. Either you've seen it, or you've at least heard about it from your friends. Being one of the original anime aired in the US via Cartoon Network, it served as a gateway anime for many, a taste of what Japanese animation has to offer. Because of this, many people give it glowing reviews as a masterpiece, and a textbook example of what a good anime is. I am not of those people. I'm from the latter group of people, who heard the reviews about how good it was. So naturally, I

          
        had to see if the hype train was real, if it's really that good, or if people think it's better than it really is because of the sentimentality of it being(probably) their first anime. Here are my thoughts:

Story:6
     The story of Bebop is a bit convoluted, in the sense that it's a roller coaster of fillerish material and key plot points. What I mean by that is that the series definitely has its ups and downs, with the down episodes seeming to have no point to the overall progression(essentially filler), and the up episodes having lots of action and plot in a 20 minute block(these are of course, sprinkled throughout the 26 episodes). While Bebop does a great job of tying everything together into a cohesive story by the end, I found that in the midst of it, I could never expect what was going to happen in the next episode, which makes it hard to follow the story as you watch it. So overall, the story overall is good, but falls apart episode to episode. I wish the main plot was emphasized more throughout the whole anime, as opposed to the last 4-5 episodes.

Art:8
     The artwork in this anime is good, so much so that I was surprised when i found out it was 15 years old. Obviously it won't look as good as your 2014 summer anime, but the art style definitely complements the overall feel of the anime. I think if you redid the anime with modern animation, it wouldn't hold up well at all. You pair a sort of western feeling anime with a sort of choppy grainy animation, and it definitely works. No complaints here.

Sound:10
     What I said for the art holds even more true for the sound. In my opinion, the sound is what really carries this anime. The music in this anime is very jazzy, ranging from upbeat to emotional pieces, from the sultry orchestral opening to the subtle guitar/piano background music scattered throughout. I don't think the creators could have done a better job of pairing music with animation, because the music really does set the tone well. Even if you're not the type to actively listen to the music in your anime, I bet you'd be surprised by how easily you could pick out a song from Bebop if you heard it somewhere else. Hell, I bet if you gave me a piano I could learn the opening by ear, and that's saying something. It's that memorable.

Character:7
     The characters in Bebop are a likeable motley crue of varying personalities. No one is particularly fascinating(although the dog Ein is hilarious), but no one is particularly boring either. They're just a very normal, dare I say average, group. No Makoto-esque characters that make you want to swallow a spoon and/or yell at your screen(damn you School Days), and no *Insert stereotypical heroine from harem anime here*-esque characters with the emotional depth of a puddle. I will say that the characters are developed well throughout the anime, so the filler I mentioned earlier did serve a point. Although, considering your main cast consists of 4 characters and a badass dog, character development should be a given considering 26 episodes is significantly longer that your typical 12 episode animes, and you've got such a small cast to work with.

Enjoyment:7
     I usually judge my enjoyment factor by how many episodes I can watch in a row before I want to do something else, with 1 episode being painful to watch(School Days, Aku no Hana) and 5+ being "Holy shit! Is it that late already?!?"(A Certain Magical Index, Clannad). Bebop scores in the 2-3 range, usually 2. The reason I'm scoring that in the middle is because of the roller coastering(Adding that to dictionary) between episodes. You finish one episode that's awesome, and action packed, and makes you want to punch a stranger because "fuck yeah!".....and then the next episode is kinda boring. Usually I stop after a boring (and I'm using boring here to contrast the exciting episodes, not so much that the episode it self is terribly boring) episode, which is about every other episode.

Overall:7(Worth watching once)
     Overall, Bebop is a good anime. Is it worthy of the more recent Attack on Titan or Sword Art Online hype train that it still garners(For those of you who have been lambasted for not watching those while they were airing like me, you know what I' m talking about), I don't think so. It's worth a watch if you haven't seen it already, but it's not worth seeking out for anime enlightenment. It's not your anime Mecca, and I challenge anybody who thinks that it is to watch it again without bias, because I bet if you're one of the people who watched it when you were younger, you'll find that it's not as good as your remembered. You'll probably still enjoy it, but it won't seem as fulfilling the second time around.

Helpful


read more
