            
    There are only two anime series/OVA/movie I've seen.  Cowboy Bebop and Fullmetal Alchemist are the only ones.

Cowboy Bebop follows Spike, Jet, Faye and Edward as bounty hunters aboard the spaceship Bebop.  Now onto the many reasons why this anime series is perfect.

First the story:  Which blends comedy, drama, action, adventure, Sci-fi and even some romance perfectly like no other show.  Most of the series are one episode stories yet I think are all connected in the development of the characters.  The story of each individual episode is done perfectly giving a beginning a middle and end with no lose ends.

          
         The action is brilliant and I still haven't seen anything to compare to it.  Finally we have the last few episodes leading to the ending.  I won't give anything away to the people who unfortunately haven't seen this series, just it will blow you away.

Second the characters:  Again done perfectly.  Each character has their own unique personality who grows as the show goes along.  Spike who used to work for Red Dragon crime organization and his haunted by his past.  Jet a former police officer who is now working with a criminal, and his haunted by the mistake he made in the past.  Faye who awakes from a 54 year cryogenic sleep with no memory of her past, who lives for the moment.  Finally Edward a eccentric computer genius, who ran away from her father.  Each character brings life to the series and draws you in caring about what happens to each of them.

Third the animation:  The animation done by Sunrise is simply brilliant, and is still amazing after 10 years.

Forth the soundtrack:  The music to the series is the perhaps the greatest soundtrack to anime series ever.  It has a little of everything from Rock, classic, Jazz, Heavy Metal and others.  Each adding something extra to the series.  I even have the soundtrack to the series

Fifth the Influence:  Cowboy Bebop has Influenced many series much like Trigun.  Shows like BLACK LAGOON, SAMURAI CHAMPLOO, and others.  I think that's a great compliment.

Overall Cowboy Bebop is a perfect anime series and is must to any anime fan. 
        

Helpful


read more
