            
    Cowboy Bebop sets the bar. I take that back; it's nonsense to set the best as a standard. Not only does it put many others in its genre to shame, but many Hollywood productions should also cower in fear of this magnificent masterpiece.

Bebop's episodic nature is exemplary of what artists can do with anime. It has story arcs, but it also has independent episodes like the throwback to Alien and the terrifying one about Pierrot Le Fou. This flexibility allowed its artists to explore a wide variety of themes while maintaining consistency. The storycraft occasionally walks a fine line between detail and ambiguity at times,

          
        much like film noir of old, but it never feels muddled. From the iconic Swordfish spaceship to the space casinos, the cyberpunk and "used universe" atmosphere is realized by the art, which really brings the believable near-future world to life. 
Furthermore, Watanabe's direction is truly masterful; each episode feels complete and whole, and the series has great pacing as well. Watanabe also provided brilliant direction to action sequences, with fights paying homage to Bruce Lee and breathtaking chase scenes.

Great characters are essential to a character-driven plot, and Cowboy Bebop shines in this regard. The series features amazing characters that build on archetypes with their own twists. Their backstories work in tandem with the archetypes, which makes them all the more memorable and not mere caricatures. Character interactions are relatable and meaningful, always with genuine chemistry. 

The series' music deserves a special section all of its own. Yoko Kanno and the Seatbelts really made a timeless hit with every single song they wrote for Bebop. The soundtrack prominently features jazz such as the iconic OP "Tank!" but also slow-paced blues and even pop music. It is difficult to write about music, as preferences in thus is such a basic if not primal sensation. The most I can say is that if you like jazz and blues, you will fall in love with the soundtrack immediately; if not, you really might start liking these genres.

This series had the gall to include the line "and the work which has become a genre unto itself shall be called: Cowboy Bebop" in the OP. The nerve of them to do that...and yet I find myself wholeheartedly agreeing with them. Cowboy Bebop is the ultimate combination of a great storyline, endearing characters, amazing music, and you will never watch anything quite like it. This is undoubtedly a classic, and my favorite anime series of all time.
        

Helpful


read more
