       
    "Well heres another great moment in the legend of Spike, famous bounty hunter and dog walker."
-Spike Spiegel

Due to my increasingly robust backlog I rarely take the opportunity to rewatch an anime. For the sake of Cowboy Bebop, one of my few critically acclaimed series, I decided to make an exception. My re-analysis was sparked by a conversation I had recently with a friend, in which she asked me what I loved so much about the series. For some reason, I couldn't rattle off a list or even a few distinct reasons as to why I hold the series in such high regard. This led me

          
        to grow curious of my thoughts if I gave it a re-watch. This was my gateway anime, the series that truly drew me to the medium in the first place, and I find it only fair to remove the nostalgia goggles for a bit and give this series a second look. Did it stand the test of time? Is it still a 10 out of 10? Well, there's only one way to find out. I'm reviewing this from a purely critical standpoint so it may get rather lengthy. Minor spoilers ahead.

Although it debuted in the late 90s, I was first introduced to Bebop about a decade ago, the summer of my junior year in high school (I realize I just dated myself). Up until that time I had always looked at anime as gimmicky or childish, cartoons lacking intellectual plot lines and flooded with girls sporting cat ears, with ultraviolent shock factor. When I had discovered Adult Swim on Cartoon Network, I was ecstatic. I would willingly stay up into the wee hours of the morning powering through shows like Bebop, Outlaw Star and Samurai Champloo, expanding my anime resume and loving every second of it. I think specifically in Bebop's case, the anime is subconsciously praised more for what it accomplished rather than its content. It helped spark a western anime revolution with entertainment fans in Europe and North America, creating a series approved by both avid anime connoisseurs and casual viewers. Not only did Bebop succeed, but it did so without tasteless fan service, harems, bad English voice acting or most anything else Americans commonly complain about in anime. In retrospect, I am so grateful to this series for opening my eyes to the medium and showing me how enjoyable anime can truly be.

When it comes to plot content, Cowboy Bebop is actually kind of bare-bones. The over-arcing storyline serves more as a backdrop then a focal point of the series. Spike Spiegel, a lethargic space bounty hunter stricken by the grief of losing his lover collects rewards from nabbing various criminals around the galaxy. His partner, Jet Black acts as the perfect balance in personality to Spike, exuding wisdom as well as common sense. They encounter a seemingly insurmountable amount of bad luck, pick up more crewmembers and come to terms with the ghosts of their past. Those ghosts are perhaps stronger for no one other than Spike, who has thoughts of his mistresse's killer looming in the back of his mind, waiting for a final battle with a one time friend spanning the length of the galaxy. Spike even sports a fake eye, a testament to his imperfection.

Throughout Spike and Jet's escapades in space, Cowboy Bebop explores a plethora of themes including loss, existentialism and loneliness. Each episode ebbs and flows with distinct tonal shifts accompanied by peppy jazz medleys along the way. The editing is quite fluid. I've always enjoyed the way this era of anime (Serial Experiments Lain, Visions of Escaflowne etc.) would create points of pondering or intellectual thought and didn't just slam the subject matter in your face. Although the anime is episodic in nature, this almost works to its advantage, adding snippets of various symbolism in its environment and dialogue. Even more cheeky episodes like the one where the crew discovers psychedelic mushrooms, help to illustrate the boredom one must face in the life of space. There are even moments where characters seem to be intoxicated or having some sort of transcendental experience, crafted almost entirely by the mind's ability to meander basically anywhere. Viewers have the unique ability to witness these themes vicariously through the crew and sympathize with them accordingly. This is definitely a quality of the anime I didn't appreciate the first time I watched it, but now that I'm older I do.

Another portion that works towards Cowboy Bebop's advantage is the lack of internal monologue with the characters. Instead of overtly telling the viewer what each character is thinking, the writers leave the inferring to our own minds. It's what some critics like to call the "intelligence test" with movies and TV alike. Sometimes monologues can detract from a series if not done properly or too often by taking the viewer out of an analytic role. Similar to this is how the entire environment is constructed. Everything feels very matter-of-fact, much like you're just dropping in as a fly on the wall with little or no introduction to the setting. The narrative is never ruined by a character abruptly stopping to explain something, which would be entirely unnecessary based on how well everything is illustrated in Cowboy Bebop. It gives you a warm fuzzy for how real life in futuristic space would be like. Even as the show concluded, with the lead character's fate being in question, there was no long drawnout speech, just the ending scenes for the viewers to decide the overall outcome. Bebop ends up being that show that can either be watched all at once or at a 1 to 2 episode a night speed. It's perfect to enjoy after a long day at school or work or just wanting to relax and enjoy some good quality entertainment.

In a perfect world an anime would balance intellectual and story driven elements with finesse. Unfortunately, this is one area that Cowboy Bebop suffers. If you don't appreciate the characters or get interested in the symbolism side of things, there isn't much else left to keep the anime afloat. Lucky for me I was able to appreciate the references and themes more this time around, so it didn't putter out or feel boring to me. There were instances where I became distracted, which were annoying, causing me to skip back and there aren't a lot of times where I was glued to my seat with excitement. It's one of those shows where you have to sit back and just take it all in, which isn't necessarily for everyone. The episodic approach offers multiple vignettes where a story is built up and concluded, all in 20 minutes.  This is a difficult task to tackle, which often lead to creating many one-dimensional villains and making me feel quite unattached from their cause, whatever it may have been. The ending also appeared to be more of a plot convenience than a justifiable conclusion.  It's almost as though Shinichiro Watanabe (director) ran out of storyboard and decided to put into place a rather cliche' ending on the series. These negatives stand out like a scratch on a new car, as they prevent the series from truly being a masterpiece. Most people would be apt to forget about these points however, since the general consensus is that Bebop is the pinnacle of Japanese animation.

The characters and Cowboy Bebop are undoubtedly one of the stronger points of the series. Watanabe did a great job of portraying the characters as relative opposites, in both demeanor and appearance. Spike is clean-cut with a dry personality, while Jet is patriarchal and political with a more rugged attire. Apparently Watanabe originally designed Spike to wear an eye patch, but the producers wrote it off early in development. Honestly, Jet serves as the entire parental unit a board the crew's ship. He's responsible, he cooks and is in charge of overseeing all the major repairs the ship undergoes. Faye, described by her Japanese voice actor as an "ugly" woman, does a fantastic job causing trouble and avoiding basically any responsibility for it. However, her enigmatic past makes her rather redeemable as a character and leaves a large area open for interpretation. There really isn't a heavily endowed, brain dead dame in Bebop. Speaking of enigmatic, the androgynous Ed has some mysteries of his own... or should I say "her" own. Dopey and unpredictable are just a few words to describe the hacker. Apparently, Ed's personality was crafted based on Yoko Kanno, the notorious composer of Bebop's OST. She must have been one interesting woman. Oddly enough, Watanabe originally proposed Ed as a male, but was gender swapped to even out the sausage fest. And let's not forget the most adorable anime pet in existence, Ein... the laziest/cutest data dog in the galaxy. Each of the characters exhibit some robust skeletons from their past and experience obvious signs of boredom and abandonment along the way. Spike's intriguing involvement with his rival Vicious is fueled by rage and revenge, two qualities not normally promulgated in Spike's personality. At the same time, It's a relationship I feel could've been expanded upon a little more. There are too many anime that falter when giving proper depth to antagonists, and Cowboy Bebop succumbs to the same issue.

If you hadn't already realized, the music is vital to Cowboy Bebop's storytelling and scene progression. Jazzy, upbeat tunes are juxtaposed with hand to hand combat and perilous situations, but everything seemed to click. Yoko Kanno had worked wonders with Sunrise Animations, and Bebop is quite possibly her magnum opus. It's one of the few anime soundtracks I could listen to standalone, without people questioning what the hell I was listening to.  It truly sounds like tracks out of a movie. Both the English and Japanese voice acting is impeccable, with props given to our lord and savior, Stephen Blum for his portrayal of Spike and Melissa Fahn as Edward. The OP is iconic, with superb, James Bond-like animation and the ED never really aged poorly for me. Overall, many present day anime could learn a thing or two about Bebop's music and how important it is to the series.  Without the soundtrack, this anime would "ok" at best. Animation has already been covered briefly, but I reiterate how well the artists created such a vivid depiction of space and the future. The character models were all very unique and their faces were emblazoned with personality.

Although I still very much appreciate this anime, I didn't enjoy it as much the second time around. Maybe it was half out of expectation or previous involvement, but something didn't feel as interesting to me. Still, I would urge just about any anime fan to check out the series if not already done. If for no other reason than to experience how great this time period was for anime in general, and how it paved the way for the growing industry. Like I previously stated, most people my age hold the series in such high regard due to pure nostalgia or how it opened their eyes to the medium of anime, I know it did for me. It's a series you can sit down and talk about even with non-anime fans, and believe me that's hard to find. I would prefer the series not be remade, as Watanabe suggests, but would be interested in a western, live-action adaptation. I think a successful American release of Ghost In The Shell will open the flood gates for future adaptations. As always, thanks for reading the review and be sure to check out my other works!
        

Helpful


read more
