        
    After all these years, I've finally watched Cowboy Bebop. And I have a great time.

Cowboy Bebop is a classic into the anime world of 26 episodes, Aired in 1996 by the studio Sunrise.
He was aired in 1996. 1996. Yes it's the third time I write it, but it was an important detail, because I was so amazed by the animation !

So the first point: the draws and the animation. It's one of these rare pearl in this field.
It's dynamic, clean, and precise. And God knows we needed this to follow these bounty hunters ! 
I though have already saw all about 90's japanimation, but this

          
        anime surprised me, really a good job.
There is CGI sometimes, but not a nuisance, pretty well-mastered.

The second striking point for me are the OST. Or do I call them, Insert Song? The large majority of the OST are  already know famous jazz song, it sets a unique atmosphere, very interesting.
It's by the way the anime slogan "the work which becomes a new genre itself will be called Cowboy Bebop" and after finished watch the anime, I think they are true.
Oh and the opening James Bond's style is awesome!

Characters are endearing. Excepted Ed who, for me, is here for scenaristic readiness.
They all have 2 or 3 episodes about their past and other, and it's largely enough.

When I heard about this anime, I though that it was very serious, dark, and take itselfs too seriously. But hey, humour was here too! And is probably the most revelant side of this anime.
3-4 Boundy Hunters so poor that they can't eat and have to hunt all the time.
Plus, interactions between characters are hilarous!

So, why only 9 ?
The problem, for me, comes from the genre itselfes. 
The serie are composed of stand alone episodes. And I didn't really like that. It was cool the first part of the serie, but after, you're awaiting for a show which tell something ! And all elements was here: Endearing characters with tragic past, OST, atmosphere.
But no, there is only a few episodes about their past dispersed through all the serie. I think it's too bad.

But to conclude, this serie is fun, with an unique atmosphere, excellent OST, endearing characters and perfect 90's animation. A Masterpiece. Hurry on it ! 
        

Helpful


read more
