         
    Imagine Bruce Lee and Quentin Taratino's love child grew up and decided to make an anime after viciously fighting tigers in a jungle with nothing but a sharp stick. Ladies and gentlemen, that anime would be Cowboy Bebop. I often view Cowboy Bebop as the "devil" of anime. Not because it's particularly bad, but in fact it's quite the contrary. When you sign a deal with the devil, what happens? You get what you want, and the devil gets your soul. And in this case, you get the best entertainment you'll ever have in your life, but your soul is now being vastly devoured by

          
        anime shows. 

Story: 9/10 - Cowboy Bebop is a bit different than other anime because it's plot vastly depends on the episodes (rather than it being a continuous plot throughout the series), to the point where it kinda mirrors a lot of American cartoons in it's story telling format. However, I still do HIGHLY recommend you watch all the episodes. Not only are all of them tremendously entertaining, but a lot of elements from certain episodes come back later as important plot. The overarching plot is pretty simple, the show follows two partners: Spike and Jet who've had rough pasts and run off to become space bounty hunters in a future society where inter-planetary travel isn't just possible, but also widely used. Overtime there spaceship (the Bebop) gains more and more members: A women with and attitude (Faye), a corgi with enhanced intelligence (Ein), and a superhacker (Who is just a little girl with SEVERE ADHD named Edward). 

Art: 10/10 - The art itself especially deserves praise because Cowboy Bebop came out before digital animation was widely used... and it's STILL better animated than a hell of a lot of modern anime. The fight scenes are still very fluid for it's time and still holds up to the very day. 

Sound: 10/10 - Want to hear the best fucking dub in existence? Look no further than Cowboy Bebop. This show has vastly been considered to have the best dub in anime history, and it came out an era where not much was expected in the dubbing process. As for the soundtrack? Well, Cowboy Bebop relies heavily on it's music as it's loaded with jazz/blues. And if you're a music fan this anime is LOADED with classic rock references... try and see if you can guess them all. 

Character: 9/10 - All the main characters that I listed above were all very dynamic and lovable in their own right, but my one and only problem with the characters are the side characters. A lot of times you'll get a very interesting side character who only gets 20 minutes of screen time, and you'll never see him/her... again. However, ALL the main characters are amazing in every way, shape, and form. Spike and Jet are total bad-asses, Faye makes a great seductress for the show (and has a very interesting back story), and Edward is one of the greatest comic reliefs in anime history. Not to mention fucking Vicious, the main antagonist of the show who trained beside Spike. 

Enjoyment: 10/10 - One of the many things that makes Cowboy Bebop so interesting is the fact they are willing to laugh at subjects that most anime wouldn't DARE to touch. Drugs (The Shroom episode... oh god the shroom episode), sex, transvestites, gruesome murders, gambling, and humans who have been heavily experimented on... this anime has 'em all! There is no such thing as limits when it comes to this show, because limits are for pussies! I personally found every single episodes filled with entertainment that had me hooked from start to finish.

This show is not called a classic because it's made in the late 90's, it's called a classic because it fucking deserves the title. If you are looking for a show that steps beyond the boundaries of other anime, and a show where just watching it will cause your chest hair to grow by about 3 inches, than Cowboy Bebop is the show for you! Overall: 9.5/10
        

Helpful


read more
