           
    Overview:

Today I will look at what is probably the most universally well received anime by non-otaku and casual viewers. It is well known that "film snobs" don't have the same taste as average film goers. A film snob will say Citizen Kane or Tokyo Story is the best movie of all time whereas an average viewer will generally choose something like The Godfather or The Shawshank Redemption. With anime it is the same way. If Legend of the Galactic Heroes is the Citizen Kane of anime revered by all the elitist snobs, and all those people making a pathetic attempt to "prove" that they are

          
        intellectuals, than Cowboy Bebop is The Godfather of anime. It is THE anime of the common man.

Story: 8/10

Cowboy Bebop is largely episodic and many episodes stand alone, but it does have an overall plot that moves forward. The story takes place in a future where warp gates have made rapid travel between the planets easy and most of the solar system has been terraformed and colonized. However, a hypergate above Earth exploded and badly damaged the moon. This caused large chunks of moon to bombard Earth and devastate much of the human population, so few humans remain on our original home world. Our main protagonist is a bounty hunter named Spike Spiegel (extremely Jewish last name) who is visually modeled on the body of Lupin the 3rd with Bob Dylan's hair and face. You know, because Shinichi Watanabe is an insane person. Spike's partner is an ex-cop and jazz enthusiast named Jet Black, who is a white man obviously voiced by a black man. You know...because Watanabe is an insane person. On their many adventures they meet a Taiwanese scam artist who claims to be a Gypsy, a genetically modified Welsh Corgi, and an androgenous, genius computer hacker. The crew of the Bebop will take on any job no matter how dangerous, but something always seems to go wrong and they never get paid very much for all their efforts. We also find out that Spike once worked for a major crime syndicate and has a tragic past love with a woman named Julia and unfinished business with a vicious mobster simply named...Vicious.

Characters: 10/10

Cowboy Bebop has an absolutely amazing cast of characters. Spike is one of the most beloved protagonists in all of anime. He is a master bounty hunter and the baddest Jew in space! Jet's humor is a bit more dry than other characters like Edward, but now that I'm older I find myself liking Jet quite a bit. Faye is a voluptuous femme fatale that is quite amusing throughout the series with her schemes and antics, and Ed is...just Ed. With the red hair, gender ambiguity, obvious Asperger's, and being the world's greatest computer hacker and Chess Player, Ed shares a surprising number of traits with Lisbeth Salender of the Millenium Trilogy. Maybe Ed gave birth to Lisbeth after an affair with the short tempered and perpetually snarky Hiei from Yu Yu Hakusho? That would pretty much explain Lisbeth to a T. Anyways, the last character is the deliciously over the top villain simply known as Vicious. He wears a trench coat over a black military uniform, fights with a katana against opponents with guns, and always has an evil raven perched on his shoulder. What a fucking badass! When Vicious isn't carving motherfuckers up with his katana, he is smiling psychotically and scheming some devious master plan to screw yet another person over. Gotta love Vicious.

Sound: 10/10

This is by far the best Jazz soundtrack in all of anime, and perhaps the best soundtrack period. I personally like the Rurouni Kenshin/Samurai X soundtrack, but Cowboy Bebop is easily my #2. Even if you think you don't like Jazz, you will love this soundtrack. It's virtually impossible not to.

Art: 8/10

The art is somewhat dated since this show was made in the 1990s, but still holds up pretty well. It is animated a LOT less lazily than DBZ, Yu Yu Hakusho, Sailor Moon, and most other 90s anime. The character designs are interestingly enough largely based on Lupin the 3rd with Spike being given Lupin's lanky body, Jet has Jigen's beard, and Vicious has Goemon's hair and face. This was a fun and clever homage by the animators to a 1970s classic.

Enjoyment: 10/10

I rated it a 10 because it won't let me pull a Spinal Tap and give it that extra little oomph up to 11! This series has plane dogfights, epic shootout scenes, fist fights, swordplay, and any kind of action you can think of. The series also homages many classic movies and genres depending on what planet the crew visits. Hell, there is even a blaxploitation film tribute episode!

Overall: 10/10

Cowboy Bebop is not my personal #1 anime of all time, but it is definitely in my top 10. Even though there are series that are closer to my heart on a personal level, Bebop is probably the most flawless anime I have ever seen. There is literally nothing to hate about this series. The art, storytelling, characters, music, and direction are all so well done that I can't imagine anyone saying that this sucks! I am emotionally attached to a few series above Bebop, but I recognize that those series have some flaws and see why others might mock and ridicule them. To use a baseball analogy, Cowboy Bebop doesn't quite swing for the fences in that same way where it will either be a grand slam or a strike out. Bebop is that perfect line drive that may not knock it out of the park for you, but it will definitely connect and be a respectable hit! If you are new to anime or if you are under the age of 20 and have simply never seen this slightly older series, you should check it out!
        

Helpful


read more
