        
    I think Cowboy Bebop is overrated. OK now fans of the 90's with your torches and pitchforks calm down and let me have my own opinion. personally, while I do see why people love this anime I think they're reading too much into it and worse, some of them overhype it to such a degree that other better anime in my opinion suffer from unjust criticism. Note that if you like it a lot, fine I respect your opinion, I really do, nor do I think less of anyone who does. Just don't call me immature just because I don't like it because, I am

          
        NOT an idiot. OK?

Now why didn't I like it? I can't simply list the stuff I liked and didn't like so I'll review the show as a whole. Everyone says that they like it for the characters, animations, simple plot and the narrative which is supposed to be subtle and leaves a lot to the imagination of the viewer.

Animation is very, very good and the action is some of the greatest (well, most of the time. The 'fight' in episode 19 sucked) and the soundtrack, with or without the way it was used is one of the greatest ever. Favorite tracks include Blue, Call me Call me, The Real Folk Blues, Ask DNA and of course Tank!

Before I talk about the plot, let me talk about the characters. Spike and Faye are without a doubt the most interesting characters in the whole show. Faye herself starts off as a 'femme fatale' character that dislikes men and tries manipulating them for her own wants. We later see what gave her this mind set and her back-story was believable and rather tragic, so much so I actually did feel sorry for her. She does develop a lot through what I deem intense suffering and I like how she gets a crush o Spike. Speaking of Spike, he's also a complex character, one who is fairly sympathetic and compelling. Despite being really lazy and only cares about food and playing pool because he believes life is nothing but a dream, he still searches for and loves his missing girlfriend. OK, so far so good but Spike has a really grating flaw of being very reckless and wild when chasing his bounty. We've seen him engage in dogfights with a lot of his bounty whilst being inside a populated city too many times to count. Because of this, the show states, a lot of the bounty they do get ends up being used to pay for property damage. Oi, writers, what about the hundreds of people Spike accidently massacred? To make this worse, some of the people he is chasing aren't necessarily a threat like Jet's ex-girlfriend and her boyfriend Rint. I mean dude, they were on a cheap boat, stop trying to kill them just because youre hungry. Geez.

Jet while still complex has a really clichd back-story and I didn't care much for his character whilst Ed is Ed; she's funny and can even be cute but thats about it. She doesn't have that much depth as a character. Vicious was an interesting and effective villain though. I actually did want to know more about him and his plans and motivations are actually interesting. The same cannot be said for most of the other villains. Pierrot le Fou as I said was a boring character and his back-story is also really clichd. I mean come on, how many time have we seen a villain who becomes evil because of torture before? How many villains also have an amusement park of doom as their secret hideout? And is it me or did episode 20 of Bebop have much more fluid animation than usual?

Now, you'll tell me that Bebop's main appeal isn't the plot so much as the characters who themselves are supposed to be everyday type of people; you'll tell me that Bebop is more about the experience, that it wanted people to feel rather than give them a normal 3 (or 4) act story. Note I love works of fiction that are supposed to be more of an experience and don't necessarily have a plot and I also love different characters. Sadly, I didn't find the world of Bebop or the premise that interesting. I didn't care for the characters that much, I didn't care for the world and I also didn't experience anything from Bebop's story that other anime have given me. The only time I can say I actually felt anything was in episode 24 with the scene where the song Call me plays. I actually did cry at that scene but thats it. The rest of the series didn't give me anything that would make me feel sad, angry, sick, happy or anything. Yeah, do you remember that scene in episode 26 where a friend of the protagonist dies? Yeah, I didn't cry because I did not care.

They say that Bebop's narrative style relies not only on the music but also on the lack of back-story, letting people draw up their own conclusions. Draw up conclusions to what? What motivates the characters to act like they do? I guess it did work pretty well sometimes but not all of the time and this is another major flaw I found with Bebop. I didn't care for most of characters because I didn't know a lot about them and what I knew were too vague. In a work of fiction you can't build off a character based on mere hints: we must have a reason to care and the only character I really cared for was Faye as her back-story wasn't clichd in the least and she was actually interesting. 

Even Spike who is an interesting character on his own suffered from me not caring because I didn't get his mindset. What made him believe that life is just a dream? What made him give up on life? What DO Spike and Julia see in each other? No, scratch that, somebody tell me what is so interesting about Julia because other than being Spike's girlfriend and one who cares for him a lot, I don't know much about her. I don't know what Spike sees in her, how they got off and developed their relationship and when things start to take a turn for the worse for them, I found myself not caring because as I said, I didn't have a reason to care about this relationship. In other good anime and manga like Berserk, Rurouni Kenshin, Sankarea, Clannad etc... we actually see the main couple develop feelings for each other over time, so much so that when they do suffer it becomes all the more heartbreaking. Bebop, didn't show Spike and Julia developing. They just got it off (I guess) and pretended to leave their relationship to our imagination. Explain anime, explain!

With this thought process, am I to assume that Ed became the way she is because she had to roam the world because her father abandoned her? There are plenty of children who are homeless and yet aren't insane so what on earth drove Edward to become like that? Something more sinister maybe...

I also disagree with the line ''And the work which has become a genre unto itself shall be called: Cowboy Bebop.'' I find it pretentious and non-sensical because no matter how many genres it crammed into its 26 episodes, it didn't explore every genres strengths and devices and in the end it is and will always be a science fiction action show.

The absolute worst flaw Bebop has though is the lack of plot and character development and over reliance on filler episodes. The best episodes like Jupiter Jazz, The Real Folk Blues, Hard Luck Woman and of course, Ballad of Fallen angels all had character development or a new revelation about the most interesting characters namely, Spike and Faye. Most of the time though, the show was spent on the 'gang' either tracking a boring clichd villain (like Pierrot le Fou and the Space eco-terrorists), not very funny comedy antics (Mushroom Samba, Cowboy Funk and Toys in the Attic) and sometimes, I found myself absolutely bored by the show with really pointless episodes (like Speak like a Child and the horrible Wild Horses).

Now, I'm someone whom likes good episodes that don't necessarily advance the plot but instead reveal more about the characters and the world they live in. Cry for the devil was very good and so was My Funny Valentine. Ganymede Elegy was a good episode showing more of Jets back-story and Gateway Shuffle was rather intense and atmospheric. Most of the other episodes weren't like that. My least favorite Bebop episode is Wild Horses: there wasn't an interesting fight scene, the characters introduced were very forgettable and we didn't find out more about the world of Bebop because the episode TOOK PLACE IN A FREAKING DESERT FULL OF UNINTERESTING SAND! The episode before it was just as bad because half of it is just Jet and Spike searching in vain for a VCR in order to play the mysterious video tape Faye received. Some people thought the entire struggle was funny: I thought the writers were too lazy and I don't want to pass through a boring episode like that just to get one sad moment that lasted 3 minutes. Someone told me that episode 19 was important in showing how Spike and Jet's relationship worked and again, I don't want to pass through a boring episode like that only to see two characters exchange a few lines and pretend that I'm seeing something deep.

I think I'd have given the series a much higher rating had it been shorter and most episodes having focused on the plot and character development because when it did focus on the plot, Bebop was amazing and without a doubt those episodes had the best moments and use of music. My final verdict for Bebop is a 7 for good. It's just an action show, a good action show but just an action show. It doesn't deserve a 10 because it's not that deep nor inspiring, nor do I think it  is the masterpiece most fans of the 90's think it is and no, Bebop fans, the worst of Bebop is NOT better than the best of anime. Period. There are plenty of anime that are vastly superior to Bebop in both characterization and writing. However, as I said, it's not horrible or downright bad and it does stay with you.
        

Helpful


read more
