            
    Cowboy Bebop was supposed to be a gateway drug - it was supposed to get people (i.e. young Americans) hooked onto sophisticated and beautiful anime. And it did just that.  

However, what happens when someone gets hooked onto the more classic Japanese anime first and then regresses to watch Cowboy Bebop? Well, for starters, the appreciation for the show is completely redefined. 

First, lets start with the basics of this show. Its a futuristic show about adventurous bounty hunters with scarred pasts who travel in their spaceship Bebop throughout the solar system capturing criminals. That in and of itself is prime for creating an

          
        incredible story. So, our characters Spike, Jet, Faye, Ed, and their dog (forgot his name already) create some sort of melded family that is both entertaining and quite heartening to watch. Their dynamic is the story, and their dynamic is what makes the plot so neat to watch. 

The key feature of the plot is the build of the show. Cowboy Bebop has an intricate 26-episode long spread that are separate but connected episodes. For example, most of the episodes are all individual stories in and of themselves, however they give an overarching theme hooks you on. And the story that has been building throughout the entire show begins to really solidify towards the end. Each character seemingly has their own ongoing stories that converge and develop, most notably our great protagonists Spike - but more on that later. 

Second, the build. Since the build of the show is not continuous (one clear running storyline comprised of many episodes), this structure enables this theme of dis-attachment that is so quintessential the show. What do I mean by that? For example, if we take Naruto, many fans get attached to the characters because they closely track their actions over a long period of time and get to see them overcome difficulties that have been going on for years. However, its different with Cowboy Bebop. Given their roles as rogue bounty hunters and space travelers, our characters already tend to not attach themselves to too many things and roam to the melody of their own unbound spirit. This perhaps is the greatest message that the construction of this show portrays in my humble opinion. Its a sweet reminder to not get stuck in the past and follow whatever wherever your heart points you - to do that which you need to do.  

Other quick notes on the build - the animation is solid. I didnt feel like I was watching a show from the 90s because they apparently remastered it in 1080, so honestly it was better than most of the newer anime that I have seen. Refreshing to say the least. 

Next, the characters. This 1998 anime is cult of personality and character. Maybe its due to the age of the show and the genuine creative spirit of its producers. I dont care what, but they nailed it for sure. The characters are all amazing in their own respect.  The character who I obviously have to start with (and the only one Ill write about) is Spike Spiegel. Since I dont think my writing can do justice to how well-developed his character is, I am going to keep it short. Spike is for certain people - hes the solution to both the human conditions of boredom and wanderlust. For those stuck in the same place all the time, Spike embodies the freedom-loving characteristic that inspires adventure and personality. For those lost in the infinity of wanderlust, he exudes a sense of conviction (despite his apparent lack of professional dedication). He, as so many have aptly put, is cool in his uncool. Despite the fact that this is a short 26 episode show, he is undoubtedly one of my favorite characters in anime. But thats the thing: Spike is the kind of character that a creator simply can not maintain in a long anime - he is too much of an ideal as opposed to building a practical and (relatively) simple character like Naruto or Kenshin. 

Interestingly, it isnt quite old-school, but it isnt quite futuristic either. Since the show is so focused on characters, it seems that the personality of these characters makes it an easy show to admire throughout the years (no matter how old the show gets). Its timeless.  Cowboy Bebop is the cult of personality and individuality 

The things that I have mentioned so far constitute the core of the cake. But what about the frosting? Music. The final thing that I want to delve into is music. The jazz and hip accompaniments are so quintessential so the show because they maintain a symbiotic relationship with the personality of the core four characters. The music helps complement their personalities, and the characters personalities are captured by the viewers through the help of the music. Many artists have written tributes to Cowboy Bebop through their music (ie. Saib - one of my favorite hip artists). If you watch the show, I highly recommend listening to the Cowboy Bebop jazz composition playlist on Spotify - if you watch and like this show, you will appreciate this playlist (regardless of your music taste). 

Anyway enough talk. 

We all know that any 1+1+1 does not equal 3. There is a synergy that arises from all the components of this show that put it in an emotional realm that is immune to the rules of math and logic. That is Cowboy Bebop. A solid 10 - nothing less. 
        

Helpful


read more
