         
    First review; bear with me. Now I'm sure this anime has been done to death, but reviewing it was irresistible since it was one of the first animes I watched, thus making a pretty lasting impression on me. Cowboy Bebop provided an extremely smooth transition from familiar American cartoons to a literally foreign arena. This show takes action to a new level, with a plethora of heart palpitating adventures which not only delve into the blatant physical aspects of the characters and setting, but the development of interpersonal relationships amongst them.

For those unfamiliar with Cowboy Bebop, the entire show is essentially the prologue to a

          
        main story that the audience never explicitly discovers. That being said, there are ups and downs to this plot set up. One of the more commendable aspects is the show's lack of straightforward obviousness in several areas, despite apparent inter-galactic shootouts and dog fights. This is especially noted in the character development of Spike and Faye, as well as the bond between them. At first glance, Spike is your stereotypical uninterested protagonist emitting a cool aura, while Faye is a rogue heroine bad ass if you will. You would expect a fairly predictable relationship between them following the lines of an abrupt love forming... Yadda yadda. However, a more subtle form of trust and understanding blossoms between them not through cheesy confessions, or transparent words, but exhilarating action! What better way to convey love is there?

That being said, predictability isn't necessarily a bad thing. Mind-numbing action probably isn't the ideal form of entertainment for some of you more analytic audiences, but the simplicity of the show made it easy to follow and more enjoyable. Missing an episode won't leave you puzzled and without important information, since you're basically guaranteed a complete adventure every episode, which leads me to my last point.

The creators of Cowboy Bebop went a little far with the whole idea of it being a prologue, and in certain instances, there were a lot of cases of ambiguity. The three main characters of course are given some sort of backstory, however not all of it was logically explained. For example, Spike's relationship with the main villain is described as once being on the same side, and now they hate each other, but not how exactly they got to that point. 

Overall Cowboy Bebop has minor issues, but they certainly don't overshadow the immense entertainment, and joy the show brings to any audience. An excellent starter anime, and timeless classic.  
        

Helpful


read more
