       
    I had the chance to watch Cowboy Bebop before. Why didnt I watch it?

After watching Cowboy Bebop, it was as if I went through an otaku ritual. I believe that every otaku out there should watch Cowboy Bebop  at least once in their lives  and realize how anime should be done.

The story-telling, the dialogue, the feel, the emotions. Everything was just mixed right. Every episode was unique and almost perfect. Every episode started and ended in a way you didnt expect. My personal favorite, was Session 20, Pierrot le Fou. That episode sent chills down my spine. I wont tell why, just so

          
        anyone who reads this review would feel obligated to watch Cowboy Bebop in its entirety. Session 23 was not bad either; I love the intellectual conversations about who God is throughout the episode.

The characters made this anime. I loved every single one of them (including the supporting characters) and their individual quirks. My favorite was Spike Spiegel, of course. I love it whenever he did jeet kune do, the martial arts system that was developed by Bruce Lee. It was just exciting to watch him fight. Jet Black was just as cool as Spike. I am fascinated at his bounty hunter skills, as well as his past. Any man with a past is automatically cool. I didnt like Faye Valentine at first, mostly because of her voice, but after you get to know more about her (the anime will reveal her past), youll realize that shes one strong woman. Finally, theres Ed. She (Its not a typo) is one wacky kid and surprisingly adorable.

The voice acting really contributed to the characters personalities. Spike, without Kouichi Yamaderas voice, would never be as cool as he is with him. Jets past would almost seep through Unshou Ishizukas voice. I already said that Fayes voice, more specifically Megumi Hayashibaras voice irritated me in the beginning, but she really brought out Fayes personality. Aoi Tadas voice made Ed even cuter. I also have to note that the banter and random discourse between these four are absolutely entertaining.

Shinichiro Watanabe played a huge role in making Cowboy Bebop visually appealing. Watching the series was just so easy on the eyes  the scenes werent heavy or overloaded at all. The scenes went on smoothly, and each scene was lovely to look at. The colors were great, and the backgrounds were detailed enough. However, I did not like the 3D animation all too much cause I found it a bit too rough, but considering it was made in 1998, I guess it wasnt that bad.

Yoko Kanno was another factor that made me love this anime so much. She is one musical genius, and I love her work on Cowboy Bebop. I think there were new tracks for every episode, and each one complimented the scenes beautifully. Each one was different too  Tank! And The Real Folk Blues were jazzy and bluesy, but there were pop, classic, whatever tracks throughout the series too. While Shinichiro Watanabe was telling a story through sight, Yoko Kanno was doing the same through sound.

Truth be told, I wasnt enthusiastic in watching Cowboy Bebop in the beginning. Thats because Im not really into sci-fi themes, but Cowboy Bebop was different. The thing I like about it the most is that its charisma transcends through time. In three words, its a classic.

Helpful


read more
