      
    This short review reflects my honest opinion about this show, I don't intend to spark a flame war with it and I'm writing simply my sincere thoughts about this series.

Cowboy Bebop is an anime that has been long since praised and is regarded as a cornerstone of Japanese animation, unfortunately, the show didn't struck me as impressive in spite of having watched it more than twice over the years. 

Story: 3

The story is set in the year 2071 and revolves around bounty hunters, specifically Spike Spiegel and his "partner", Jet Black, who make a living by chasing criminals of the solar system, later on, the

          
        crew grows larger thanks to the voluptuous Faye Valentine and the skilled hacker Edward.

The plot doesn't show any sign of plot progress until the fifth episode, where Spike's former friend and nemesis, Vicious is introduced, however, the plot of the various episodes fluctuates between linear bounty hunting and secondary or rather silly episodes that barely bear any significant change to the story, this is exactly what disappointed me the most, in fact, the show could be summed up in three or more episodes, perhaps I'm being hyperbolic here, but twelve episodes could have worked just as well. Frankly, episodes like "Mushroom Samba" bore me to death no matter how many times I rewatched the show, the fact is that Cowboy Bebop is full of these kind of episodes, hence forcing myself to watch it took me several efforts, as it goes without saying that it wasn't easy.

Art: 7
The animation doesn't belong in the trash, but neither is anything stunning from my point of view, although it makes the show enjoyable, there's not much to say about it.

Sound: 8
Music is one of the strongest points of the series, I always appreciate Yoko Kanno's works and the songs she composed for this show are no exception, almost every song in the show is worthy of being called memorable, as you'll probably wish to listen to the soundtrack at least once in your life.

Character: 5
It's unfortunate the characters don't match my taste at all, I guess I just can't relate to any of them or found them utterly generic, I like Spike, he's a cool and skilled guy and everything, but it doesn't get deeper than that, even after his backstory was explained along with Jet Black's and Faye's, it didn't impress me in the slightest, the characters are still cliched to the core from the beginning to the end of the anime, thus I can't help but say that I disliked them.

Enjoyment: 6
I always believed that if might have watched the show back when it came out, I would've enjoyed it much more. In my opinion, Cowboy Bebop has aged and nowadays it can't be regarded as a masterpiece as back then. 
I prefer shows like Darker than Black or Dimension W over it, while the two aren't as praised as much as Bebop, they don't feel nearly as generic as it. I enjoyed the ending which took a very unique turn for the better, but all I can say about Cowboy Bebop is that it's an okay show, and doesn't deserve the praise it gets.

Overall: 5
From my previous experiences, I have a hunch that I'm going to anger the fandom. be labelled as a troll or a person with considerably "shit taste" one way or the other, but it doesn't influence my thoughts about the show. I didn't enjoy Cowboy Bebop, but I could have enjoyed it if I watched it in the age it came out. This brief review only describes my subjective opinion and is in no way meant to offend somebody.
        

Helpful


read more
