            
    At its core, Cowboy Bebop is the story of Spike Spiegal, Jets Black, Fay Valentines, Edward, Ion, Vicious, and Julia. But that's where the whole anime, in itself, drives a whole lot more in its 26 episodes. It leads us through a universe somewhere around 2080s space - I'm not sure, because in one episode one of the characters died in 2071 - where we still have the planets of the Milky Way, but because of the presence of orbital gates and space travelling and colonization, all the planets are now in themselves environments with interactive stories to tell. And yes, a lot of stories

          
        happen in either the planets (Jupiter, or Mars, or Earth, or Pluto), or their moons (like Titan, for instance).

For instance, Cowboy Bebop doesn't refer to either Spike or Jet, but rather the spaceship they use which has been named "Cowboy Bebop". Now, unless you had seen all the episodes, this small little thing might have been missed out. Its not a spoiler by any means, but it is stated to illustrate how the anime is presented.

While it is preferred to watch Cowboy Bebop in sequence, the episodes themselves are arranged like vignettes with only the characters forming the core bond holding them together. All of them. In the case of Cowboy Bebop, the best thing are well developed characters, even when they occur for one episode only. They not only interact with their environment (like bounty hunting, or hacking systems, or going to bars to drink, or even casual conversations between non-interactive characters who are very minor, for instance), but even amongst themselves are very... organic.

While the fight scenes and battle sequences in Cowboy Bebop are limited, they are nevertheless well handled. My personal favourite fight scenes are from the ending moments of "Hard Luck Woman". But in terms of personal favourite episodes, I'd choose "Pierre le Fou", "Cowboy Funk", "Mushroom Samba", and "Heavy Metal Queen".

In terms of characters, however, I'll be sadly blunt here, and by saying so I do solemnly want to inform everyone reading this review, that this is a massive spoiler, so be warned: Julia is a bitch. I'll not tell you why, but after seeing Cowboy Bebop, you'll realize this as soon as you reach the arc "The Real Folk Blues".

Cowboy Bebop has its moments of contemplation, and it also has its moments of melancholy as well, but it does its best to integrate these alongside countless other emotions into the universe it is set in. Again, I repeat, the universe Cowboy Bebop is set in, is very dynamic, and in this anime it is very well executed.

This is a classic by many significant anime standards, and it doesn't come as a surprise why most traditional anime fans tend to bash modern ones. Its a timeless tale, and it is presented well. And it deserves to be recognized.

All in all, a deserving watch.
        

Helpful


read more
