          
    I'm not one to jump on the hype train. I try to not get high hopes for anything, because usually you are going to be let down. I've heard the praise for this show so many times over the years. Google "Top Ten Anime Series" and almost every list will have Bebop in it, usually at #1. So I went in hesitantly, and I've gotta tell you...

Cowboy Bebop is a goddamn masterpiece.

Each episode is usually standalone. That right there tends to steer a lot of would-be viewers away from this series. Even I was a bit hesitant to plunge into a show with an episodic

          
        structure. But I'll tell you, this show really pulls it off. There are a few episodes that connect together, but for the most part, it's a standalone affair.

The series follows the bounty hunting crew of the good ship Bebop in the year 2071. It depicts their daily lives as bounty hunters, as well as giving us insight into their pasts. Most episodes or "sessions" as they are called, tend to focus on the crew attempting to secure a bounty. This might sound a tad bit repetitive, but I swear it's not. The sheer unpredictability and creativity that is put into each session assures the audience that things will never get boring.

The strength of the show really isn't in its plot, though. It's the characters that drive the series forward. They are all incredibly well developed, which is an amazing feat due to the episodic nature of the show. Each of the four principle characters are completely different, and they all feel real and authentic. 

Them all being squeezed into one ship creates a brilliant stew of character interaction. Their ideals and viewpoints clash on the regular, which creates some interesting scenes. They also bond over time, even though some of the characters try their best to hide it. 

Their pasts are also heavily explored, as one of the recurring themes throughout the show is that your past will always catch up with you. This applies more to the central character, Spike Spiegel, more than the rest however. Each member of the main cast gets a few episodes specifically focusing on them, adopting a flashback format. These are generally the best episodes of the show, in my opinion.

I fell in love with these characters, and it was heartbreaking to see them go through so many ordeals. Spike, Jet, Faye, and Ed won't leave your mind for a long time after you finish the show.

The art and animation are incredibly good for its time. There are some series now that fail to reach Bebop's level of artistic beauty and fluid animation. For example, Trigun, which came out around the same time, is nothing compared to Sunrise's work on Bebop. The art isn't too flashy, but it perfectly creates a realistic space western feel. You feel like this world has been lived in, and things aren't always pretty. The character designs in particular are impressive, as each member of the cast has a different and recognizable look. 

The animation is flawless. Absolutely flawless. This is expertly conveyed in the action scenes, which have a naturalistic and fluid feel to them that is rarely achieved in anime. The only flaw on the art and animation fronts is the computer generated graphics that are used several times during the show. They look out of place and don't really meld well with the environments, but hey, the show came out in 1998! I think I can cut it some slack. Still worth mentioning though.

The soundtrack is where this show excels at a level I don't think I've ever heard before. The mix of jazz and blues, with a little bit of classic rock thrown in brings the show to life. It fits the mood of the show perfectly, even though it might sound odd for a science fiction show. It works, though, I swear it. As a testament to its greatness, I'm listening to the soundtrack right now, as I write this review. Props to Yoko Kanno and the Seatbelts, for real. I mean, "Space Lion" is one of the greatest tracks I've ever heard.

The English dubbing of this show is in a class of its own. It fits the show perfectly, with each cast member giving it their all. I don't know how good the Japanese audio track is, but it's going to be hard to beat this. It's fucking unbelievable. I mean, Steve Blum kills it.

This show is considered a classic today. I had heard all the praise. Not once did I buy it. I went into this show thinking that it probably wasn't going to live up to its praise. I was wrong. Dead wrong. 

The sophistication of it's themes and characters are unrivaled in anime. The beautiful art and stunning animation. The wonderful soundtrack. The great ending. Oh yes, the ending. It's a stunning conclusion that managed to wow me and break my heart at the same time. This is animation at its finest. 

For reference, here are my top five favorite episodes:

5. Waltz for Venus/Pierrot Le Fou 
4. Hard Luck Woman
3. Ballad of Fallen Angels
2. Jupiter Jazz (Parts I & II)
1. The Real Folk Blues (Parts I & II)

See you, space cowboy.
        

Helpful


read more
