            
    I'm going to be quite honest here, most episodic anime, such as Cowboy Bebop really doesn't do a whole lot for me. But it's strange, in all it's 26 episode glory, Cowboy Bebop has managed to do what no other anime has ever done and that is too ensnare me in it's word right from the beginning never failing in letting me go. Cowboy Bebop is, quite simply, my favorite Anime ever. No other anime has shown me such a perfectly balanced world, with such an awe-inspiring atmosphere dripping with originality like Cowboy Bebop has. 

For starters, it's entirely character driven. The show lives and

          
        dies by how it manages to get you to connect with its characters. Cowboy Bebop is one of those rare shows that you don't really need to have a favorite character (although we all do, mine is Spike like most people) because you love all the characters so much you being to sympathize and feel connected with every one of them. It's story is also mixed with a perfect marriage between drama and humor. I've seen people call Cowboy Bebop one of the most depressing anime they've ever seen and I've seen other people call Cowboy Bebop the funniest anime they've seen. The reason it can be so funny without intruding on the seriousness of the plot, is due to the fact that unlike most humor in anime, the humor in Cowboy Bebop is deftly subtle. There are really no instances where the show seems immature or chained to conventional anime humor cliches' and I really can't help but appreciate it all the more. You'll laugh, you'll smile, I wanna say you'll cry, but I didn't, your heart strings will definitely be tugged at a time or seven. The thing the series is most notable for, however, is definitely the music. It's more or less a blend of jazz, blues and contemporary rock that almost blends too naturally with the Space Cowboy setting. Each episode has a different musical theme and the Bebop series really gave me the majority of my favorite anime music. 

Listen, I can sit here and talk about how great Cowboy Bebop is all day, but the more I do that, the less time you'll have to sit down and watch it yourself. This is simply one of those anime series that you NEED to watch to call yourself a proper anime fan. I'm not saying you'll love it as much as I do, but if you don't at least give Cowboy Bebop a chance, you're a fool. 
        

Helpful


read more
