        
    Do you miss the days where outer space felt like a place where people went to work, did their laundry and lived their average lives, instead of a futuristic, chrome-plated, automated, flashing, beeping gadget? I certainly do. Titles like Star Wars made space feel like someplace that you might live someday, instead of a place where everything was shiny and new, and nobody ever had to do manual labor. Cowboy Bebop is on to something with the way it portrays outer space. At least, thats what avid fans of the series may tell you.

Being one of the more popular anime titles out there, does it

          
        really live up to all the hype? Hopefully, this review will answer some of those questions for you. Diehard fans of the series may not like some of the things that Im about to say, just to give you fair warning.

Story (4/10)Whoa, hold on a second! Didnt you just spend the first paragraph of this review praising the anime? Yes, people who inevitably will question me, I did. However, this particular chunk of the review wont be so lavish with praise. 

Allow me to explain myself. The 4/10 makes it look like I hated this show. Let me assure you that I did not hate it.

The story of Cowboy Bebop takes place, you guessed it, sometime in the future in outer space. It follows the adventures of a bounty hunter named Spike and his buddy, Jet, a fellow bounty hunter. While this sounds like a stereotypical journey through space boredom, its actually quite refreshing. Spike and Jet live in a space world that somehow reminds you of the old west. The entire start of the story just feels organic. You get a good sense of who the two characters are, and what theyre doing.

So, why have I given the story such a low score? Well, quite simply, it was the startling lack of depth to the story that killed it for me. For the first several episodes, the show feels, wellepisodic. There isnt really a whole lot of story to connect the events of the first several episodes together. The only real common thread is Spike and Jet collecting bounty after bounty. Now, much to my surprise, this actually wasnt a bad thing at first. I can deal with a few episodes where the plot isnt apparent yet, if done well. And these episodes were! There were very good, and quite fun to watch! The atmosphere drew me in, the characters were intriguing, and the action was well-executed.

However, as any viewer will, I eventually began to get curious about the past of the characters, and how theyve come to be where they are now.  After a few episodes, you finally start to get a few painfully brief glimpses into Spikes past as he comes face to face with an old enemy. However, this tension is quickly dropped in favor of some more episodic adventures.

Fast forward another several episodes, and you get some more overarching plot involving this aforementioned villain. This particular adventure is split into two episodes, which got me very interested. However, the story drops the overall plot AGAIN and doesnt pick it back up until the final two episodes. I really am not exaggerating, folks; aside from an occasional, brief flashback, the entire plot takes place in the space of about five episodes. 

So what are the other twenty-one episodes? Well, most of the other episodes are fun little adventures that involve some new villain every time, and put the characters in some sort of funny/amusing situation. Enough for some people, perhaps, but not for me. What really hooks me into a show is good, solid, well-planned plot. And Cowboy Bebop plain and simply failed to deliver. And on top of all that, the ending iswell, to avoid spoilers, lets just say I didnt care for it.

Basically, I was sitting there frothing at the mouth, episode after episode, saying Wheres the plot? When does the plot start to form?. And then I was left with precious little plot at all, only to be disappointed by the ending. Its like if youre at a restaurant and they give you a salad, and I mean a really, REALLY delicious salad as an appetizer, but when you finish your salad and keep asking for the main course, they just give you more salad instead. Then, once youre starting to get sick of salad, they hand you a stale pop-tart as dessert and send you on your way. What? Wheres all the good stuff that I came here for?

Thats exactly how I felt at the end of Cowboy Bebop. I felt dissatisfied, and I felt like a great group of characters with good back stories, a very good atmosphere, an interesting villain, and some really solid action scenes had all simply gone to waste. I think thats why I dislike the story so much. It got my expectations so high because the first few episodes were so good, only to disappoint me in the end.

Art (10/10)See? There WERE things I liked about this show!

 Cowboy Bebop really is a gem among animation. Mind you, this anime was released in 1999, and the animation is STILL better than half of the stuff thats released today. Every motion is fluid and smooth, and I never noticed any instances where the animation was lazy, or where the creators cut corners to save time or money. What really gets me is how some objects, like spaceships, were drawn without computer animation. Most animators will use computers to animate something with many moving parts, but not Cowboy Bebop. And in the instances where computer animation is used, it often took me several times to actually notice it.

Everything about the animation in this show is superb, from the characters, to the background, to the dark color palette that makes up the show. There were times when I wanted to pause the video just so I could stop and look at all of the beautiful details in the background. All in all, the art creates a very convincing atmosphere that makes you feel like you really ARE in space with the characters. 

Sound (10/10)  I really dont think you can find an anime with a better score than this one. Im completely serious. I know that its a bold claim to make, but the music is absolutely sensational! Remember how I keep blabbing on about what great atmosphere this show has? Well, the music is largely a part of it. Tank, the opening theme, is one of the most popular opening titles in the history of anime, and nearly every other bit of music is as fun and addicting to listen to as the title. This is easily the strongest point of the show, and was a large part of what I enjoyed while watching it.

For the first time, wellever, I watched this series entirely in English. I was shocked to discover that the English dub of this show is VERY good. Ive heard rumors that the creator of the show likes the English voices better than the Japanese, but Im not certain of whether its true or not. In any case, you wont be disappointed if you watch this show in English. Ive never heard such a skilled cast of voice actors put together for any English dub, and never even once stopped and thought about the voice acting being poor. I cant speak for the Japanese voices, but Ive heard that those are quite good as well. No matter how you watch it, youre not likely to be disappointed by the voice actors.

Characters (6/10)The first rule of creating any workable story is that the characters must be believable. And, largely, the characters of this show fit that mold. In addition to Spike and Jet, there are two other members that make it onboard to become part of the crew, and although these characters spend the majority of the time being annoyed with one another, youll still find yourself liking them and laughing at their dynamic they share. Each character gets at least one episode devoted to exploring their back story, which is a significant chunk of time, considering the short length of the show. 

Thus, each character was fleshed out very well by the end of the series, and I found myself caring about each of them, even the ones who had annoyed me at first. However, by the time the plot starts to wrap up in the last two episodes, I came to realize that the relationships between the characters werent really going anywhere. One character whom didnt give a rip about Spike at the beginning, actually started to care whether he existed or not by the end. Spike doesnt seem to care at all, and what could have made for a very interesting moment between two characters was thrown out the window when Spike walked away.

I think my biggest reason for the low score was at the end, how so little emotional catharsis was achieved. Spike spends most of the series remembering a woman he loved, but the ending doesnt really do much to take care of all that pent-up emotion. Even when Spike has that inevitable facedown with the villain at the end, I still didnt feel like anything had really been achieved. Yes, I suppose the plot had technically been resolved, but what about my beloved characters? How do they react to all of this? Well, I hope you didnt care about them, because the show never tells you.

Its that stale pop-tart showing up again. Not only do you get an unsatisfactory ending plot-wise, but the show NEVER tells you what happens to the other characters! Even if they had all died, I still would at least have known what happened to them. However, the ending focuses solely on Spike, and even what happens to him leaves a little room for interpretation and guesswork. I suppose thats why I disliked the plot so much. I felt like the characters that I knew and loved werent done justice by the ending.

Enjoyment (7/10)This anime left me torn. I loved the music. I loved the art. I loved the characters. I even loved the first few episodes of the show, but I just felt like the ending let me down. Ultimately, I did enjoy the show, despite the many flaws I pointed out.

Overall (7/10)So now its time to answer the question I posed at the beginning: is this show overrated? My answer would be a tentative yes. While there are aspects of the show that I didnt care for, namely the plot, I still really enjoyed it, and the music definitely lived up to the hype.
Ultimately, Id say this show is definitely worth watching. I just feel like whenever a show gets as much hype as this one does, people are bound to be disappointed once in awhile.

Helpful


read more
