      
    Cowboy Bebop is a good choice for you if you're looking for some well animated action series, where you don't have to follow along on an overarching plot, and prefer to kick back to some episodic stories. If you dislike episodic structures, note that Cowboy Bebop does develop its characters, but very slowly, and has continuity in its universe, but its structure relies on building any story it wants with the cast for the most part, while defining the traits of who those characters are. It doesn't promise you anything for the next episode it will deliver. And note that if you dislike when a

          
        series isn't particularly colorful, Cowboy Bebop's animation might not come off as well animated, since it's an old anime and stuff didn't use to be very colorful back then.

You see, modern day  anime rely a lot on being colored puddles of puke, where they assort everything with plenty of colors, but without paying particular attention to how it contrasts with everything, and how the viewer will notice the particular details presented in it. It is easy to sell and hook someone with something that is easy on the eye to simply become eyecandy. However, both the cinematography and animation here is what shines, with the series making good use of lightning and camera angles to create really interesting shots and engaging fights. It also paid attention to the motion of the characters, and to certain small details that give the animation life, such as the trembling of someone who is holding a gun in their hands when nervous, as an example. But what I appreciate most about it is the fact that it knows exactly how much detail to put into each shot, as it didn't have the technology or budget to simply build gargantuous images. Rather, it knew how to animate exactly what we'd be paying attention to. Rather than constantly pay attention to the landscape and constantly create beautiful scenery nobody will really focus on, it chooses on focusing on the details that are relevant to the movement of the characters, like the lightning of the shadows, the way things break upon impact and other such little details that make each action scene be more engaging. In other words, it has a great sense in what is relevant to present in a scene, over what would make it look more pretty and it focuses on substance rather than appeal.

The structure of the anime was episodic, mostly focusing on delivering action romps, while developing certain details about the world and its space setting. It did focus on the characters occasionally, but it mostly relied on being capable of using their default state to create some episodic action setpieces. While it is indeed episodic I do want to compliment Cowboy Bebop that it follows an episodic structure that I'd deem respectable. It doesn't promise you it will get somewhere necesarily, as it doesn't have a clear defined end goal for an overarching plot and that's good, because you won't feel like the episode you are watching is a mere waste of time due to the fact it does not progress the plot. But it also has continuity with the characters undergoing some events that give them motivations, but in a way that doesn't break their intended roles, so they can used as a formula. So not everything is gonna be constant and could go through some slight changes at any time which can hook the viewer, but it will never have the risk to break familiarity. It doesn't lie about what it tries to deliver unlike some anime that present you an overarching plot, while taking a lot of side trips that only artificially progress to the end goal of the plot. Cowboy Bebop merely tries to entertain, and that's it. As far as you can expect from it, expect anything, but with the only constant being action and/or suspense that get solved under 20 minutes.

How it tries to entertain is simply by delivering some good looking action scenes in an interesting setting. Personally, the setting kinda took away a bit of my enjoyment, merely because the understanding of space that we had when Cowboy Bebop was produced, as well as certain tropes that existed then, is far different to that of the current day. As an example, someone got worried about some explosives flying in space and said it would be a great threat to travelers, but how would explosives ignite in a place with no oxygen, like space. So when you watch Cowboy Bebop, you have to twist your view of scifi a little bit, as the futuristic setting imagined is far different to our preset one now. Things such us not expecting to colonize planets such as Mars and Venus, that happened in Cowboy Bebop, which are uninhabitable planet, might sound to you as a little far fetched with no explanations. The novelty of the setting is absent, but it is charming in the way of "so that's how people thought this was gonna turn out" kind of way. And the setting itself doesn't really take away from either the drama or the action pieces presented in the episodes.

Personally, I consider Cowboy Bebop to be one of the best possible results out of old fashioned anime. In terms of detail, it tries to liven its world up by bringing up small details in the movement and good cinematography, which give it great artistic value. Maybe you won't get something incredibly colorful or as detailed as something that can be animated today, but it is animated in a way that the key elements someone would focus on shine through. In terms of writing, it creates any story it wants at any point, while also being capable of progressing its characters forward. It knows what ground rules to set and how to leave them open ended enough to be potentially interesting for a larger group of people, which is how something commercially viable was aimed back then, rather than subgroups. But it does so in a manner that does not seem like pandering to the masses, because of the fact that it is diversified enough. And I think they did the best with the setting they've created as they possibly could've done at the time it was created. Frankly, I think it is at its maximum potential of what it strived to be, and that is what I found most appealing upon rewatching. That all the criticisms I could deliver are merely due to its age, from mentality of the characters, to animation and the way it was delivered. 

Now that doesn't mean any concerns about it are unvalidated. It is episodic so you won't follow through on a sound story with a beginning, middle and an end, but rather, a bunch of adventures meant to entertain. Some people prefer to see the bigger picture for entertain value, rather than focus on tangents, and in Bebop, while there may not be such things as tangents, there's no such thing as a bigger picture either. Some people might not enjoy something merely due to the fact that it contains action and suspense, so those details can get lost on you quite easily and Cowboy Bebop immediately losing its value. And the setting itself hasn't aged as well as other things in science fiction, and if you can't watch it from the perspective of novelty, or accept some of its shortcomings because it was novelty at the time, the setting won't hold much value. But I personally can't help but respect Bebop and consider it good. It tried its best to be as innovative as it could, while also trying to appeal to everyone by following a structure that will allow change but a lot of constants in it as well and the animation was done in a manner that the shortcomings of the era don't really take away from it, outside of a few dated animation techniques that won't hold today and don't really get used much.

Cowboy Bebop is one of the best things that could've aired in the late 90's. But is it one of the best things that you could watch today? That's the question you should answer yourself, when deciding to watch Cowboy Bebop. I strongly recommend watching Bebop from an artistical sense, if you're a fan of good animation or anime in general, to see what's the highest potential an animated series of that age could achieve in that department. But whether or not you will be entertained by it, strictly depends on you, as the value of it can vary from episode to episode, and its setting is dated enough for you to create your own inconsistencies. Frankly, the question is as simple as this: Do you generally enjoy short selfconcluded action stories?
        

Helpful


read more
