        
    The story is pretty much episodic and not traditionally serial like the majority of anime. Each episode, they watch a show for bounty hunters that provide them information on the latest thugs that are out there ranging from petty drug dealers, to big time hitmen, and universally threatening terrorists. But I felt there are some certain episodes that the series could have lived without. Like episode 11 where a blob comes out of the refrigerator. 

What I really like about this anime is that it's very character driven. Like Spike despite having a very reckless nature and can crack wise jokes, tends to have a

          
        very indirect and not so straight forward personality if you try to have a normal conversation with him. He&rsquo;s not really anti-social, it&rsquo;s just that he&rsquo;s not a people person, and is really private. Ed is just this whacky genius kid and you have no idea what goes on in her head. Faye is the freeloader. And Jet is who you can say is the parental figure aboard the bebop. These personalities equal to some very great chemistry and very realistic interactions because of how the characters express themselves and their general personalities. 

In terms of art and animation quality, this anime was the gateway between the 1990s and the new millenium. It perfectly mixes CG and 2D art. One of the other animes doing it that around this time was Initial D, which wasn&rsquo;t really as amazing as Cowboy Bebop&rsquo;s but still cool. But Cowboy Bebop just perfectly blended it together and did not make you lose a certain grip of what you were viewing. 

The action of this anime ranges from John Woo style explosive stand offs, aerial dog fights, and martial arts. So you&rsquo;re getting everything in terms of action. A lot of scenes were influenced by Kung Fu and John Woo movies. Like the climatic battle in episode 5 is based on John Woo&rsquo;s the Killer, and all of Spike&rsquo;s movements when he does hand to hand combat is all based on Bruce Lee. His footwork, his stances, the way he lunges, all of it. And of course Spike is a student of Bruce Lee&rsquo;s martial arts philopshy, Jeet Kune Do, meaning the intercepting fist. There is one episode where he tries to teach a guy martial arts and he even uses one of Bruce Lee&rsquo;s famous and iconic quotes of &ldquo;be like water.&rdquo; 

The design is very distinctive and the characters are diverse but you see some references to other animes in it. Like Spike&rsquo;s clothing style and his color scheme does pay homage to Lupin III. And I can&rsquo;t say for certain, but Faye&rsquo;s design does remind me of Major Kusanagi from Ghost in the Shell with her look and the hair color being purple. The space ships are quite original and have a great design to them. They have excellent frames where it matches their aerial agilities in combat or in high speeds. 

Thanks to the addition of Yoko Kanno, then expect top notch music in this anime in its own respective style in compliments to the atmosphere. The jazz and blues soundtrack is one of the other most associative qualities this anime has that makes it so great. It flows so well with the action scenes by making you sit back and enjoy the excitement, and yet it also reflects the easygoing personality Spike still manages to maintain in his fights against tomato can opponents. And sometimes, it will have some more powerful sounding songs like Rain that goes so well with the scenery. Tank, the opening theme gives somewhat of an old school feel to it like you&rsquo;re watching a 1970s action movie and the song alone is good enough to show you&rsquo;re going to see something that goes beyond your expectations. 

Both the Japanese and English versions are excellent. It really doesn&rsquo;t matter what version you&rsquo;re going to watch because both tracks just do an accurate job of making you feel the characters. However, my only problem with the dub is that the black co-host in the bounty hunting tv show sounds more like a southern white guy. But moving on, both Koichi Yamadera (the voice of Ryoga in Ranma, Togusa in Ghost in the Shell, and Kaji in Evangelion) and Steven Blum really bring out Spike&rsquo;s laid back, humorous, serious, and not so straightforward personality. 

Seiyuu legend, Megumi Hayashibara (the voice of female Ranma, Rei from Evangelion, and Lina Inverse from Slayers) and Wendee Lee approach Faye&rsquo;s character as being mysterious, captivating, broken hearted, and yet is somewhat of a motivator. 

And Unsho Ishizuka (the voice of Miyata-san from Hajime no Ippo, Sasaki from History&rsquo;s Strongest Disciple Ken&rsquo;ichi, and Bunta from Initial D) and his English corresponding actor, Beau Billingslea, both do an excellent job of portraying Jet as being somewhat part comic relief, but yet has a grouchy personality at the same time and brings out the big brother/father figure to the Bebop. 

In the past, lots of people have talked about a sequel. This anime does not need a sequel. The ending is perfect. The director should not have gone out and said there is no conformation or any implication of what the ending really meant. I really love 100% conclusive endings. I rank this the 2nd best ending behind Ashita no Joe. But on the other hand, I can understand making a prequel. I&rsquo;d like to know how a run out cop and a runaway hitman teamed up to become bounty hunters. Like make a story of how Spike and Jet met. Make an OAV about Faye during her past. I like to know more about the characters to get a better understanding of them, and I feel this series would be a bit more complete, not saying the series is, but some of the small things did leave me curious. 

So if you like martial arts action, dog fights, John Woo, Dog the Bounty Hunter, sci-fi, and space opera mixed with a story that doesn&rsquo;t really have to be linear, but driven more by the characters, than this is for you. It&rsquo;s very, very great, but short of perfect.


Helpful


read more
