            
    See you, space cowboy. Bang.

Story: 10 
It has a good premise, an uncommon one so it makes it more interesting. The story when it has fun, it really has fun, and when it gets sad, it really gets sad. I was close to shedding a tear towards the end but I was overcame by a feeling of hollowness, which is much worse. I got closure from the end, but I don't think I'm satisfied with it. I'm really gonna miss this one. 

Art: 10
Hands down one of the best openings I've ever seen. It's not textbook, it's creative, it presents characters in an unorthodox way,

          
        it transitions in an unorthodox way, it's an opening I wouldn't mind watching through over and over again. Animation is top quality, and the fights are just a joy to watch. Same goes for all of Watanabe's works. As for character design, I absolutely love it, I've never seen such different characters. Every character is distinct from one another, and it makes the anime so much more memorable. Not to mention, the animation. The animation is superb, especially for an anime of its time. The fight scenes are so clear and smooth, so entertaining. 

Sound: 10
"I think it's to time blow this thing, get everything stuffed together. OK, 3-2-1, let's jam!" I love the soundtrack for this entire anime, it has the right songs to fit in the right moods and it helps to evoke so much more. 

Character: 10
Spike is an interesting one. That being said, all of the characters are interesting. Including the supporting characters that only last an episode or two. They have all have an interesting background and personality that makes them so much more memorable. 

Enjoyment: 10
I LOVE THIS ANIME. I love Samurai Champloo as well. I've always been a fan of Watanbe's work. He has a story that just hits it on the nail that keeps you wanting for more yet helps you understand that there can't be more. Perhaps if I were to critique anything about the anime, is that it's only so long. It feels like it can go on forever, but at the same time I feel as if 26 episodes is enough. Nevertheless, it's an anime I can say blows out any anime of its genre out of the water, including the newest ones.

Overall: 10
ABSOLUTE must watch. I don't care if you don't watch action anime. Cowboy Bebop is an ABSOLUTE must watch. It's undeniably good, and a definite classic. 
        

Helpful


read more
