      
    As a fairly new anime fan I obviously started with some of the most recommnded shows, and Cowboy Bebop was one of the first. This show is considered a masterpiece thanks to the alleged fascinating characters, outstanding story and amazing music. 

Let's start with the latter- the Jazz soundtrack is really cool, though not notable or memorable in most of the parts. The openening theme is super cool, and I almost never skipped it (a thing I usually do). 

The show has a nice background story- after an accident in the hyperspace the Earth became uninhabitable, and humanity colonized the other planets and moons of

          
        the solar system. Meanwhile, crime rates have risen, and bounty hunters help the police catch criminals. In short- a fair setting for a space western. There are indeed some beautiful views and space battle scenes in here. 

The problems begin when the story starts being told. First, like most in of the shows in which the episodes' plots aren't tightly connected, troubles tend to get fixed to quickly. A more major problem is that the first 10 episodes are absolutely boring! If the show wasn't considered a must-watch classic that luckily has only one season, I probably wouldn't have gone past them. The 11th episode is a turning point in the manner of the plot quality, altough such episode was probably made in every show with a spaceship ever. 

But eventually, the biggest cause for my personal relative unenjoyment was the thing that the show is most praised for- the characters. It is true that all the main characters have mysterious troubled pasts that are explored throughout the show. However, because we know nothing of them at the beginning of the show, and their backstories are revealed way to slowly, I couldn't find even a small piece of interest in any of the characters until the very last episodes. For example, Jet's past which was the first to be revealed, is actually quite an uninteresting unoriginal cliche. Around episode 20 I realized that my favorite character is actually Ein the dog! Combining that with the boring first 10 episodes, I got a show that I would likely drop in an early stae unless I was feeling obligated to watch it until the end as a so called classic. 
Also, I was really bothered by the unproportional bodies of Spike and Faye, or more specifically- their extermely long legs.   
        

Helpful


read more
