        
    *SPOILERS FOR COWBOY BEBOP IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADY SEEN IT SOMEHOW*

I'm sure that I'll hardly be able to add anything new here given that most of this show's praises have been sung more than the OST has been replayed by anyone who has seen the show, but what the hell? If Spike could go up against a Syndicate, then I can still find some things to say, at least presumably. Back to the preamble and enough of the rambling. Back in 1998, this wand the most popular show. Anime was just starting to really hit a boom with the US market, and back in the

          
        day, this was like, the show you'd always sneak out to your friend's house or purposefully break your 9:30 PM curfew to watch if you were a kid in middle-school. Nowadays, it's one of the most celebrated anime to date, with thousands upon thousands of loyal fans who always spread the series like a loud bang from a gun in a giant echoing hallway with people in it who somehow rejoice the sound (if you get the inside joke I made). Now why is that? What makes this series stand out as one of the few classic anime (10+ years old defines a classic if it's often considered great) to make it to the top 30, among the likes of Code Geass, GTO, Spirited Away, and Legend of the Galactic Heroes? What makes this to often be considered Shinichiro Watanabe's magnum opus? Well, let's find out, shall we?

STORY: 10/10

A large chunk of this series is set on individual missions for the Bebop crew to try and make some money off of, usually to fail due to unforeseen circumstances, like their bounty dying, or someone screwing everything over for them, or whatnot, and a lot of them are fairly episodic. Sure, a lot of them are used to flesh out bits and pieces of the Bebop crew in sometimes tragic ways, but there are just there to fill up the run time, at least that's what it feels like. The ultimate plot behind it is that Spike Spiegel was once part of the Red Dragon Syndicate, but after Julia starts falling in love with Spike, Vicious loves up to his name and takes everything over and chases after Spike, so in order to escape, he fakes his death and joins up with former cop, Jet, and together, become bounty hunters, or Cowboys, if you will. After some missions gone awry, a dog, a troubled gambler who was in cryostasis for 70 or so years, and a genius hacker who is also a little girl, all join the crew, to Spike's initial dismay. Before I dive into the real meat of what makes the narrative of the show so special, I have to call attention to their taste in music and culture as a whole, with each title being a reference to a song or even a style or genre of music, as well as episodes that are blatant references to certain types of film, like Mushroom Samba's blacksplotation or the city noir crime detective style of Ganymede Elegy. It's always fun to see a show's episode titles have that much care and style put into them, especially when there are series out there that put no goddamn effort into their episode titles at all.

This series does a great job fleshing out the characters piece by piece, revealing how tragic their back stories are, like those of Jet up until his individual episode in episode 10 and Faye until hers in episode 18 with the video tape from her childhood, which has to be one of the saddest moments in the show. This series also likes to convey emotion more than anything else, specifically the various emotions you experience through life, without resorting to melodrama, which is rather refreshing for a show that relies mostly on pathos, with scenarios like the bell peppers and beef scenes surrounding a tragic case in the first episode, as to signify that this is the crew's way of trying to let it not get to them as they live another day scraping by; eating while trying to put everything past them in order to not be miserable, even after the crew splits temporarily in episode 23. Episodes 12 and 13 are where things start taking a turn for the darker, as after another square off with Vicious, we start truly learning of how badly everyone has it, except arguably for Ed. Admittedly, we already got to see it with Jet a few episodes prior, but that's 1 out of 3. The first time we really get to see the overarching narrative for Spike is in episode 5, and this is sort of taking a back seat for more adventures and scenarios that flesh out everyone. In episode 24, we finally meet Julia, and this is the point where everything comes spiraling down, as in the last 3 episodes, the crew eventually splits for real, Spike meets Julia again, Vicious truly takes control of the syndicate by force, Julia is killed, and Spike storms the syndicate to face off with Vicious once and for all before dying by saying us catchphrase to the cops that surrounded the building, culminating in one of the best ending in anime akin to the likes of Gurren Lagann, and again, Code Geass. "You're gonna carry that weight" has been ingrained in the minds of just about everyone who has seen this show since, like the characters, we gotta live with our life choices as some of them come back to haunt us, a message that's infinitely more poignant for adults as they've already started coping with this.

CHARACTERS: 9/10

The Bebop crew is widely considered to be one of the most iconic main casts in anime history, and for damn good reason, from their lavishly executed backstories, to their charismatic nature. The man who embodies this most of all is of course, Spike Spiegal, a total badass who hates kids, pets, and women with annoying attitudes. He kicks ass with style and smoothness akin to Bruce Lee (even paraphrasing him and having a similar fighting style), and generally comes off as someone you wanna see in just about any scenario life can bring, which this show is always more than happy to oblige. He has this sort of charisma ther just gels with his combat. It sucks that his past sucks, but that's a key part of the show; that your past will always come back to haunt you until you put it to rest. Jet Black is a former cop who cooks bell peppers and "beef" (cuz there is none), and is a very stern man who hates it when Spike goes off on his own, because it often screws with the mission, and with the money. It's always fun to see the two interact, and in fact, it's always fun to see him interact angrily with anyone, and that's surprisingly hard to get right. Then again, this is Cowboy Bebop.

Faye Valentine is a gambler with an attitude, and a charming mistress who was in stasis for 70 years, uses gambling to wash it all away after the pain of being deceived by a man she was growing affection for in this new, advanced, and alien age. I think what really makes her the most depressing of it was is seeing what an adorable child she was and not only how much everything about her childhood home and friends have changed and disappeared, but just how much darker and more scheming she became. Ed is a hacker who, unsurprisingly, acts like a child, and even plays with the dog named Ein, since of course, he is one. All of them are really likable characters for different reasons, even of most other characters don't have enough screen time for us to really connect with them, especially when some of them die. Though, that's kind of the point. We see the crew having small interactions with these guys we'll rarely see again. Just like the crew, we're just people wandering into the tail end of their now tragic life stories, with one exception: Vicious. A renegade syndicate member who wants revenge and control, feeling betrayed by Julia's affair with his best friend Spike. A typical setup for the hellish rivalry between two friends. Overall, this still quite a lovely cast, especially the awesome and emotionally broken Bebop crew. If they didn't have such bad luck with cases, I'd bet lots of us would wanna join them.

ART: 10/10

Some of you may be (unjustly) disconcerted by how old and classic the artstyle is, but this is one of the most fluidly animated shows I've ever seen, surpassing the likes of FLCL, and for it to keep that up for 26 episodes, two whole seasons of anime, is damn impressive. The mid 80's to late 90's perfected anime shading, and this was one of the lucky series to recieve such treatment, especially when it comes to the small ship Spike often pilots. Hell, it looks more polished than most anime today, and it's been nearly 2 decades since this show aired. The show's rendition of the clsssic visual technique of Itano Circus (coined and originated by the legendary Macross franchise since its original installment), shown off in episode 4, is a sight to behold, as are the amazingly fluid fight scenes. Then again, considering how fluid Spike's Bruce Lee inspired fluid fighting style, it's only natural that the series would go that far. The character designs also look both impressively stylish as well as realistic, the latter of which is something you don't often see in anime. The OP in particular as this type of jazzy flare to the art that you'd never see in any other OP, and the ED has blue images, complementing the song's name. The explosions and action look very gritty, really nailing the impact of whenever someone chucks a gernade in the middle of a fight, and overall, this show is definitely worth watching for the crisp and fluid visuals alone.

SOUND: 9/10

The soundtrack was done my Yoko Kanno, and that just sells the show right there, doesn't it? A lot of the OST, while not inherently memorable, definitely captured whatever scenario the crew finds itself in during any given episode. Plus, with emotional songs like "Green Bird", "Stella no Moor", "Memory", Waltz for Zizu" (hey, Digibro used it emotionally), and "Good night Julia", how can you go wrong? The OP, "Tank" done by The Seatbelts, is a very cool and slick jazz song that amps you up for the show perfectly. You might find it contradictory that I said a lot of tracks aren't that memorable, only to list a lot of really amazing tracks, but there are so many pieces in the show that for even a decent fraction if the OST to be amazing, is to show how amazing it is as a whole. The ED on its own is pretty good, but the moment your tears truly fall is when you hear the full version of the ED "The Real Folk Blues" by The Seatbelts FT. Mai Yamane, which is a beautifully done emotional song with a final 2 minutes they can release the feels epically. 

The dub is often heralded as one of the best of all time, and I can't really disagree. It's up there with the likes of Gurren Lagann in terms of dub, which is really fitting given how amazing both shows are. All of the voices sound truly real, more so than most dubs or most performances of any show, and it all gels really well. Steve Blum does Spike Spiegel, and if you're a straight girl, you probably felt pleasure from that fact alone given this man's voice. Everyone else does a really great job as well, and rarely does it fell awkward in the slightest. 

ENJOYMENT: 8/10

Like I said, some of the middle episodes were almost fillery, and a bit boring (namely Mushroom Samba) but it was all worth it, not just for every episode that revealed much of any character's past, but also for the final few episodes. The show is smooth, and slick, like a good jazz song, and it often carried me through some of the weaker moments, followed by some really strong emotional moments. The show is definitely an entertaining one, and the badass yet tragic finale was definitely the highlight of everything. Looking back on and/or rewatching the show is when you truly appreciate the show's brilliance, and I wouldn't mind rewatching it sometime in the future.

OVERALL: 9/10    RAW SCORE: 92/10

This is definitely an impressive show that Watanabe worked on. It may not be a personal favorite, but I can easily see why someone would list it as one of theirs. It does a great job presenting the many different emotions of life, and does it brilliantly. Definitely a worthy show for anyone, especially one who loves to experience sci-fi. If you watch this show, you're gonna carry the weight, just like the rest of us. With all that said, I bid you adieu.
        

Helpful


read more
