          
    Cowboy Bebop. The show that makes you feel so bad ass you rob a bank, kill a hooker, and inject steroids right into your cock! The show that will have you sayin see you space cowboy after every episode and right when the credits roll you start up the next episode like the fat piece of glorious shit you are. I know im a lil late to the party but I wanted to review this gem since it's one of my favorites and all. So lets get into the review ladies, gentlemen, transgenders, and all people who identify as a trans queer Doppelganger Mc Flurry

          
        Feminist Neo Nazi because im not trying to offend anyone, please don't hurt me. By the way, this contains spoilers if you're the 1 out of 10 people who has not seen Cowboy Bebop yet.



Story:

In all honesty I didn't get into Cowboy Bebop for it's story line, sure it was there but that's not what drew me in, it was the action baby! This isn't to say the story is bad I loved how it was episodic. In fact for it's time this was something unique and different. I liked how every episode was a different adventure and it felt fresh with new and amazing characters and new people joining the main crew and sort of becoming a family of sorts if you wanna call it that. The only gripe I had was that the ending felt sort of unsatisfying for me and this really is just my opinion but I felt like it was sort of rushed and what I mean is that end fight with Vicious felt lame af, how you gonna let that nigga kill you and you got a pistol when he had a close range weapon? You managed to get a shot on that fool! He wasn't invincible and you could of brought a machine gun up in there and blasted his ass sky high! Naw im playin it was a good ending, the bang at the end was cool and all that shit. 9/10



Art:

The animation was fantastic, you aren't gonna get anything this good these days. Now most shit consists of low budget CGI (Im looking at you berserk 2016!), I feel like all anime looks alike nowadays (THATS RACIST) but it's like everything is drawn so cutesy, one reason I can't watch DBZ Super even tho i really want to just the dub needs to hurry the fuck up, Japs voices always trigger my great grandpas PTSD so i can't watch it. But anyways the art is great, love Fayes Tits. 9/10



Sound:

The voice acting and musical score in this show is godly. It's like experiencing sex with Sophia Vergara while Beyonce makes out with you and Lisa Ann fondles your ball sack and fingers your butt hole all at once! Never have I heard English voice acting this good not even today. It all sounds like shit with a few exceptions here and there like a minor bit of Funimations work but it still doesn't compare. And that lovely Jazz music is the cherry on top of this beautiful sundae. 10/10


Characters:

Spike has to be one of my favorite MC's of all time. He's in my top 10 list and for good reason. Who doesn't love a space bounty hunter with a dark past and a humorous attitude? Jet's also a cool dude who can cook a mean bell peppers and beef (hold the beef). Faye is the bad ass chick every show needs one of those for boobs and what not, she has a cool backstory. And then there's Ed.... wtf is that a boy or a girl? That bitch would have professor Oak give up raising Pokemon just to figure out the gender of this nigga. Oh yeah and there's Ein the dog, he barks and shit. 10/10


Enjoyment:

So, did I enjoy Cowboy Bebop? Does Kim Kardashian finger Kanyes butt hole? Is Xvideos better than porn hub? Did my father leave me at a young age because I was a failure as a son? I didn't just enjoy Cowboy Bebop, this was the first show i legit jerked off to, it took me on a ride ill never forget and it made me so erect my cock broke through space and time itself. I've never been on a trip like this ever since I took acid back in high school. You will laugh, you will cry, and you will most definitely maintain an erection for more than 5 hours. 10/10



Overall Score: 10/10

 would be an 11 if this rating system wasn't shit. 





Helpful


read more
