           
    "Cowboy Bebop is a generally overrated Anime that now is mostly famous due to its continues element of referencing Western pop culture, high-quality OST and well animated action sequences, however doesnt offer neither too much in actual substance nor actual characterization worth mentioning in its episodic narrative". 

This aforementioned statement has more or less become the popular opinion regarding Cowboy Bebop, a highly popular Anime TV-series, whichs first episode aired in April 1998. Being part of the "trio" with both Trigun and Berserk (excluding the heavily controversial Evangelion for now), its one of the first Anime-series which did grow a considerable large fanbase in the

          
        West in the 90s, without being a Fighting-Shounen aired on evenings time like DBZ or essentially being a Mahou-Shoujo like Sailor Moon is. Naturally, a show with Bebops setting, style and overload of original soundtracks in English was bound to appeal to a Western audience at least in some way and as time stands, Bebop managed to stay stronger as its two brothers in arms trying to conquer hearts of potential Western fans for a long time now and established itself as a somewhat cult-cartoon, even only be it in the US. However, as time progressed and Anime become much more popular caused by online streaming, heavily increasing the knowledge and accessibility of numerous different titles, the show did tend fall out of peoples favourites of both casual Anime watchers and fans of critically acclaimed Anime with surprisingly common reasoning, especially because the things Ive mentioned in the first paragraph. As much as I think that some of these statements have at least a grain of truth in them (while I take them with a grain of salt), theyre either minor criticism or undermining the huge power it has in both its overarching theme-exploration and its ingenious use of an episodical narrative, not taking away any quality from it, but rather carve it in stone. Even though a lot of people are not digging each show of the aforementioned trio for some totally legitimate reasons, its almost impossible to take away the most important aspect within each of them, landing a much bigger hit on a more mature audience, than the other popular Anime during these times did. Berserks slow, but superb incorporation dark, fantastical elements into its gritty medieval setting, Triguns good balance of comedy and darker story elements and Cowboy Bebopswell Im about to show you my personal take on this series qualities, as I try to play along those lines of its Jazz.


1. Pushing The Sky


Being listed as one of the most influential "Space-Western" up until this day, the setting of Bebop hovers both lots of potential to either exceed peoples expectations, or to majorly disappoint them when looking for the wrong thing, namely the show being a Space-Opera in a classic sense, inevitably hinting at Legend of the Galactic Heroes. As the series prolongs, its more of a mixture of multiple genres, which evidently can have a quite diverse feeling to them. For example, "slice of life"-esque episodes are getting mixed in with clearly experimental episodic stories + storytelling. By stating that fact, its even more remarkable that the series is able to pull off these kinds of tone-shifts with such ease and fluency, while still providing something of value for each individual episode, be it in story-telling, character-insight or excellently creative directing, a challenge most Anime not only have trouble accomplishing to begin with, but dont even come close to the quality it facilitated. 

The lack of a progressing story in Bebop is easily justified by it using the episodic-style to its absolute advantage, implementing a highly interesting factor for its characters among numerous other masterfully executed aspects, which will be tackled a little later in this review. While the series offers a kind of coherent main-storyline, which gets its first big reveal in episode 5, most of the other episodes have a tendency to classify themselves in one of two categories with partially fluent borders, while the first one dominates in prevalence: Either as an exploration and continuation of already introduced themes (f.e. the famous being stuck in time-conflict) like Waltz for Venus #8 or a refreshingly light-hearted, facetious and "tribute-paying" episode like Cowboy Funk #22. While the thematic value of each individual story might just vary for every viewer, these episodes have the capability to really hit hard and build up on already introduced conflicts, making it really questionable if those episodes really should be called mere side-stories to begin with, since their coherency in exploration is absolutely on par with the main one. 
Of course it helps, that competently executed episodic storytelling is often the cream of the crop Im searching for in this medium, upping the value of the series even more for me personally.

The Bebop crew visits different planets, gets engaged into different ship-battles, meets different people of different beliefs, kicks different villains butts and manages to pay homage to so many different titles of Western pop culture its insane. Starting with more obvious ones like Spikes incredibly similar style of fighting to Bruce Lee, which feels almost like a "flow of water", to minor references of Blade Runner (episode #7, character named Decker) and many more. I honestly dont want to list more of them, since Id be lying if I say that I did get them all by myself, but more importantly because this aspect has been endlessly covered already and being used to define the homages as one of its biggest strengths, while it only is a minor one. Its true that these aspects accompanied by the stylistic ass-kicking both the crew and their villains receive over the course of the series offer the simple assumption, that the show is not more than a merely rule-of-cool type of show, which has become some kind of tainted term in the anime community, at least from my perspective. Cowboy Bebop undeniably borrows a lot of rule-of-cool, however is able to provide much more than that, creating an immediate oxymoron going by its popular definition. Its more of a stylistic approach by the show's director Watanabe, or by Anime in general, to pay respect to both the popular action and the classical film noir genre in the West, creating both a unique and refreshing appearance in the Anime medium.


2. Words That We Couldnt Say (Major Spoilers ahead!)


Probably the second most important, or even the most important aspect why Bebop qualifies for all the praise it gets, is the handling of its cast with utmost care and competency. Combined with the ingenious audiovisual storytelling, its what the shows identity defines in hindsight. Without it, breaking the general idea behind almost every (non main-story related) epsiode apart is quite a breeze and would go something like this: 
1. The crew set their sight on a new high-reward bounty.
2. They make a plan on how to catch the bounty alive.
3. Something goes wrong, their target gets killed or escapes.
Of course this is, as mentioned before, a heavily watered-down version of how its episodic storytelling actually works and is functioning as a criticism, that is quite common to hear: The individual stories are too repetitive is one of these classic examples I tend to hear a lot, especially in recent times. It might be a legitimate reason to severely decrease ones enjoyment of a show, but wont work well as hitting criticism for the show, since the simplicity of said episodes served as just the right set-up to dive into the characters behaviour, which is connected deep within Bebops unarguable main thematic: All characters of the the crew suffer from not being able to advance in their own future, since theyre plagued by their past bringing them down. This becomes clearer the longer the series progresses, studying on how they firstly act as apathetic outsiders when confronted with stories and emotions of strangers (even their own bounty), but over the course of the episode they see them as projections of their own problems and happenings in the past, finally making them feel empathy and acting "out of character". Clear hints for that are scattered all over the series, for instance when the crew is letting their prey escape, Jet being lenient on Spike after their big dispute and then not even bringing in ther bounty, even when they would need the cash so desperately. 

Balancing all of these aspects undermines another big strength of Cowboy Bebop: It manages to convey all the aforementioned without ever feeling preachy or washy in its runtime. When looking on how well it all wrapped up, Watanabe just has to be the main suspect responsible for all the aspects to run like clockwork, displaying few hints here and there in several episodes, making effective use of subtext in dialogues, heavily including the OST in its storytelling and therefore finding the perfect balance between style and substance, Watanabe managed to fit it all in. 

Furtherly examining and putting singular characters into spotlight is a very interesting task in this series, especially when talking about the crew of bounty hunters themselves. 
When starting with the protagonist of the show, Spike Spiegel, we already found ourselves a true gem to analyze, probably even exceeding the other two incredibly interesting crew members of Bebop. Spike is a former member of the "Red-Dragon-Syndicate" and now an independent bounty hunter. A feud inside the syndicate, involving an only hinted triangle-conflict between Spike, Julia (Spikes light of love) and Vicious (the main antagonist) led to violent confrontations within the Syndicate, mainly involving Spike, Vicious and his adherents. Spike makes an (ultimately futile) attempt to fake his own death, Julia manages to flee and Vicious stays within the syndicate in an aspirational position. 

Spikes central-conflict of the show is exemplary for the very similar conflicts of his comrades: The inability of moving forward or changing his perception of life itself, because of him being tied to the crucial events of his past, even when absolutely trying to forget or starting to deny that said fact. Probably the most tragic one of the bunch, Spikes past does have the highest ability to come back for him and most cruel, just when he was able to move on it did strike its last fatal blow. Viciously being robbed of his loved one, the sole light in his past was the ultimate nail in the coffin for no return. The crows, both Vicious symbol and for all the hardships Spike has been through in this past and still clings upon to resolve, is an interesting thing to talk about, as theyre seen multiple times before Spike is engaged in battle with Vicious (episode #5 church scene) or a crow is shown waking Spike up from his dreams, after he was being shot by a subsequently revealed tranquilizer. Furtherly supporting the crisis Spike goes through during his journey, are the little bits we get to hear from the way hes talking to others about his past, clearly hinting at the happenings in the syndicate (I was killed once beforeby a woman) or his overall futile actions to resist being dragged down into stagnation from his backstory (It feels like Im watching a bad dream Ill never wake up from). 

Jet Black, the seemingly rather reserved "head of the crew, also gets explored rather fantastically, when thinking about how little screen time his conflicts did have in contrast to Spike and Faye. Jet is a former member of the ISSP (Inter System Solar Police), positioned at Ganymed (a moon of Jupiter). He joined the Bebop after he left the ISSP due to an incident, involving him losing one arm and had it replaced with a mechanical one.  Jet acts as an adequate counter-pole for Spike by comparing their past alone. But not only do they really differ in their backstory and journey to the Bebop, they also greatly differ in personality. While Jet still has not lost his ability to care for others not involved in his own backstory to that severe amount as the for example Spike did, his reserved deep care for his comrades also shows more through actions than through words. Albeit he frequently warns the crew from taking any reckless actions, he usually falls back into a played facade of apathy shortly afterwards. This attitude often dissolves with him doing someone a favour/kind gesture at the end of an episode, even though that someone usually disagreed with Jet's beliefs and plans. The interaction between Spike and Jet on the run to its finale is one of the most noteworthy examples of show dont tell, when talking about the atmosphere created by the audiovisuals, or one of the best examples of conveying emotions through simple dialogue and analogies Ive seen in the medium so far. 

Adding the third member to the bunch, a lot of people seem to prefer Fayes backstory over every other in Cowboy Bebop and they do so justly. While it might not be my personal favourite, since I found Spikes to be even more engrossing, Faye is the only member who goes through by the book development during her conquest to retrieve her lost memories.

Faye is 23 years old, cold-hearted on the surface, depraved and one clever and dangerous individual to be reckoned with despite her very femininely attractive physique. Over the course of the series we get to learn, that Fayes memories has been completely erased due to the 54-years long cryogenic sleep shes been put through. This cryogenic treatment was undertaken, in order to save her life by waiting until the medical technology was advanced as much to treat her fatal injuries, which wouldve caused her death back then. That functions as a very interesting setup to see Fayes actual development caused by the retrieval of her memories in bits and pieces, in contrast to Spike and Jets development basically finished before we jump into Bebops storyline. Furthermore, her chase after a place where she truly belongs does prove to be really difficult, since her relatives are nowhere to be seen and her former home planet Earth is now uninhabitable due to the devastation from numerous meteor strikes while she was sleeping and harbours an initial disdain towards the crew of bounty hunters. The show manages to explore the core-conflict splendidly, creating both heart-breaking moments (e.g. the end of episode #24 Hard Luck Woman) and a tremendously emotional climax out of the pretty basic setup, which ensnarls itself deeply with Spikes conflict in the concluding episodes. This might as well verify once again, that simplicity in a shows basic conflict can very well lead to superbly connected theme exploration, in Bebops case in a very subtle but discernible manner. I very much appreciate Watanabes attempt to neither try to look incredibly smart or complex at any point in its runtime as well, since it would take away large bits from the qualities Bebop set itself up through its overall rule-of-cool-ish style on the surface and subtle hints on the thematic depth of characters backstories. 

While Ed is lacking in the character-section theres an argument to be made, that she is not as important of a character, because of her lacking in character-depth in relatively to the rest of the bunch and that is entirely true when only talking about her as a character and not how her eventual farewell from the Bebop crew influences both Spike and Jet personally. While I can definitely agree on her lacking as a singular character in comparison, I simply cannot agree with the criticism, that theres a lack of character chemistery, since its the shows intention to make especially Spikes and Fayes relation to every crew-member as cold as impossible, as them being stuck in the past life and not being able to indulge themselves into new, close relations is basically the main theme of Bebop entirely. 


3. Gotta Knock A Little Harder


As fans of the series might have all already noticed, I tried to name my headers for each individual section of my review after actual songs in the Cowboy Bebop OST. While I tried to use it only as a creative and a bit more stylistic approach to properly segment my review, Bebop does not only use it stylistically or just to provide atmosphere, how virtually every other audiovisual medium tries to use it. No, it incorporates the music directly in its storytelling actively, leaving it to the tracks to tell a story, leaving it to the music to...convey a message. Yoko Kanno and her particularly for this occasion formed band The Seatbelts did create a total amount of 6h worth of an incredibly diverse and magnificent soundtrack, to both harmonize with the visuals and multiple different conflicts of the individual stories to create the right mood for e.g. melancholic (Adieu playing at the end of episode 8), unsettling (introduction of the Pierrot Le Feu in episode 20) or light-hearted/relaxed moments (the crew chilling on the ship after a done job etc.). As I already said, by the sheer amount of diversity Cowboy Bebop offers through its runtime. The OST has to not only have a solidly high budget and talented musicians to create such a high diversity of tracks in terms of feeling, tonality etc., it also has to keep a distinctive identity through the runtime of the show, if at all possible, rather than a garden variety of different, non-comparable single tracks, that make the not only the OSTs, but also the shows identity to slowly drift into the whatever-territory for me. Bebop managed to keep its distinctive identity though, much, much better than I initially expected before my re-watch, since they managed to keep a prominent focus on Jazz, with little outliers to count, that didnt complement the complete work at all. To pick some of the most talented musicians to be featured in numerous Anime soundtracks, known for her huge talent to cover lots of different genres, Yoko and her crew were almost definitely the best choice, especially for a show that reliant on effective usage of its OST on one hand and very solidly matching singular tracks during action-scenes and what not. 

Incorporating its soundtrack effectively in its storytelling, be it with lyrics, merging with the visuals to effectively use nonverbal communication between the viewer etc. is a task only a few shows in the medium have actively tried, and it's even more of a rarity to find a series which did actually execute this efficiently. However, even then Id be lying, if I said any show deserves the #1 spot other than Bebop. Along with the characters its definitely my favourite aspect about the show, because it knows to effectively pull the trigger in key-moments, during its continues character-conflicts and builds a strong foundation around those moments through several hints in dialogue and even simple postures and gestures being used to tell more about ones feelings in several occasions, furtherly accompanied by the score. The series just does understand people too well, to intersperse that much attention to detail in the mentioned gestures/postures and mimic to show a characters condition is something live-action movies tend to do very well, but Anime regularly struggles with. The most noteworthy moments I remember would be the all so famous church scene in episode #5, when Spike faces the ghost of his past, Vicious, the first time over the course of the story. The played song when Spike approaches his future battleground, Rain, manages to both set in the right tone through instrumentals and manages to tell a story on its own, deeply connected with the main theme of being stuck in the past, as it even gets specified in the lyrics itself. To furtherly raise the stakes of how good the audiovisuals act together in this episode alone, is Spikes falling sequence, where we get to see bits and pieces of already in episode #1 foreshadowed the happenings around Vicious and Spikes bitter dispute and the bloody feud resulting from the growing rivalry in the syndicate. 

Ed leaving the Bebop crew in episode #24 has also been a masterfully executed, melancholic bit of the show, with the crew members downtrodden sadness of another member leaving, while the other one seemingly doesn't come back anymore. Again, this is most importantly conveyed through gesture and music alone, as we see Spike and Jet to superficially process the shock through as simple as to forcefully eat the eggs Jet wanted to cook for the whole crew, as they were revoltingly going down their throats. The interconnectivity between the beginning of episode #12 (Space Lion, Part I) and ending of episode #13 (Part II) usage of the same track, the end of episode #1s villain, Jet chasing the criminal boyfriend of his ex with a swift tune more than an exhilerating track in episode #10 (Ganymede Elegy), the music box at the end of episode #8, the both unsettling tragic conclusion to episode #20 Pierrot Le Fou (furtherly supported by the grotesque imagery in the theme park) and the final two episodes in general are even further display of the OST greatly interacting with Cowboy Bebops narrative in key character and story-moments.


4. The Real Folk Blues (approaching the finale)


As Ive already mentioned several times how the finale is absolutely terrific, however I still have yet to explain why it hit me as hard as it certainly did.

Episode 25 starts off with Vicious attempts to bring down the established leadership finally being shut down, the elders taking appropriate action and arresting Vicious, soon to be killed anyways. Furthermore, Spike and Jet get attacked by pursuers of the syndicate, fatally wounding Jet on one of his legs. Faye, on her own journey, meets Julia on her way, also being persuaded by the syndicates desperate attempts to tie up loose ends. Faye manages to escape with Julia alive, learning this Julia is indeed the line of light Spike so desperately seeks and gets the mission to tell Spike, that shell be waiting there. Back at the ship, Faye arrives just before another attack of gets launched at the crew, with Spike seemingly accepting his upcoming death, but when Spike hears that Faye had met Julia and now delivers a distinctive message to him, it sparks his survival instinct in an instant. 

As there are many aspects to focus on in this episode, my preference might just be how Spike and Jet interact with each other, since this is probably the most telling when talking about the emotional conditions these characters face themselves in having. Firstly, Jets severe injury and probable inability to advance the Bebop through the hardships to come that have already started, raises even more doubts in Spikes mind to finally give into his past chasing him down, mostly implied through posture and overall silence/consternation Spike gives off the definite feeling of having. Jet did both notice Spikes state of mind through his entire journey, as hes unwillingly relentless and is almost acting out of character when his bits and pieces of his backstory come to shine through, and the sudden change for the worse, when Ed left and him and Spike getting attacked in a mundane situation and tries to both give an analogy in what kind of situation Spike is stuck in and he was stuck in before, before he learned how to let go. Jets words do reach spike, but his inability of letting go still goes on, while his will to life was fading away ever so slowly, reaching its maximum when another attack of the syndicate gets launched at them, right after Faye makes her comeback to the crew (Oh well, it was going to happen sooner or later). However, Faye mentioning the possibility of meeting Julia once again, at the said venue that was planned in the past before Vicious interfered, does give Spike hope once again, not only perceptible in mimic, but also the general comeback of his attitude of pushing through, when directly confronted with problems unleashed by his past. The final push Spike needed to get his will back was Jet, furtherly encouraging him when hes seen the spark of life coming back into Spike by the sole mention of his beloved one (Go grasp that thing that you have lost), all meanwhile Vicious manages to take over control of the syndicate by the means of a double-coup, setting up the stage perfectly for (one of) the most memorable finales in anime history. Along with Julias death in episode #26 and the confrontation of Spike and Faye right before the final showdown, adding their individual progress, but greatly differing conclusions both characters have made for themselves, the final episode delivers a conclusion which does not disappoint in any way and reaches a catharsis that feels both personal and incredibly uplifting, considering the events leading up to it. 


5. Conclusion:


Over the course of this review, I mostly did praise Bebop above and beyond heavens and while I still tried to reflect a lot of reoccurring points of criticism based on the fact, that these rather serve as minor criticisms or even nitpicks, because of how incredibly much the show exceeds them in other (and even related) levels. Theres still a somewhat fair point to be made for most of them, since they can greatly influence a shows personal appeal and investment, basically the name of game for Bebop. Although the argument of inconsistent quality can be dismissed by the shows episodic nature, its true that there are similar anime (like Mushishi) in terms of narrative, which are a little more consistent over the course of their runtime, but also never reach the greatness of Bebops best episodes and interconnectivity, making it even more difficult on how to evaluate quality in this precedent matter. 

With all things said and done, I may just come to the general conclusion, that Cowboy Bebop is an absolute must-watch for fans of episodic-storytelling, westernly-influenced style, incredible character-depth being explored in a more than interestingly unique way and both, one of the rawest emotional experiences and the most excellently cathartic ending in Anime I've seen so far, almost certain that I could change the last four words to "of all time" as well. Perfectly crafted and meaningful in what it set out to do and achieve, Bebop will most certainly never die, as an all-time classic or in my heart. 

Youre Gonna Carry That Weight.

Story (8.5/10)
Art (10/10), Animation (10/10)
Sound (10/10)
Characters (10/10)
Enjoyment (10/10)

Overall (10/10)
        

Helpful


read more
