           
    Cowboy Bebop - before you decide to watch this anime get ready to go on a serious feels trip. It may seem harmless, but it's a lot more than just a comedy - based anime. This genius work of art, coming from Shinichir Watanabe (you may know him from directing Samurai Champloo, Zankyou no Terror or Sakamichi no Apollon, he produced all of those aswell), will take you to the realms like you've never experienced before.

Eventho the anime started airing throughout 1998, and finished in about April 1999, it had pretty decent animation I've to say. But I'd still rate it a 6, just because

          
        most of the scenes are portrayed as moving pictures, and don't any actual animation in them. But I guess that's reasonable because it was 1998 and all that shit.

Neverthless, this anime posses one thing that I rarely see in the anime made throughtout this millenium - the actual goddamn story. The story itself isn't a fascinating one I'd say, but I've enjoyed watching the fillers that cover the background story of every single character itself. The reasons why they were scarred, the reasons why they did the stuff they did, and so on. I found it so much more amusing watching the anime that was made at the end of the previous millenium that these they make nowadays tho. The animation may be poor, but you can see the actual story somewhere.

So, without further a do, as you can read in the synopsis, the whole story revolves around Spike and Jet, two bounty hunters who chase intergalactic criminals and do badass stuff all the way down to it. The anime was quite well paced I'd say, not too fast, and not too slow I guess. And yeah, the ending was perfect I'd say, just to my liking. Of course I won't spoil the ending, just saying it tho.

Oh, and so my favourite part - the OST's of this anime are really, really amazing. That opening song was easily the best one I've ever heard. Every single time I watched the opening, which I really rarely do, I mostly skip them all. The music matches the scenes so well, you just can't hate it. I mean, who doesn't love a chilly OST or an opening song? Well, that's about it, the only real thing I can complain about here is the animation, so I rated it a 6, but the whole anime overall - I rate it a pure 10. 
        

Helpful


read more
