          
    The short ass review:
I love this show. 10/10

The actual review: 
I love me some 90's anime, its quite good. I could go on for ages on how much I goddamn love this show. I could be a grown ass man by the time I'm done. But instead, I'll give a short 5 paragraph version of why I love this show.

Cowboy Bebop takes place in space with 2 bounty hunters (Spike & Jet) making cash off killing people. Later on they find a bad-ass women (Faye), a person who still after 17 years, nobody has any idea of it's sex (Edward) and a goddamn dog. We're

          
        given enough information to work with for these characters as we meet them. It's not too much nor too little. As the show goes on, we delve deeper and deeper into the characters as we learn about their pasts. And that's really what the show revolves around, the history of a bounty hunter (Spike Spiegel) who has done a lot of bad shit which I won't talk about cause duh, spoilers. But it is real emotional. It even gets emotional for the other characters.

I love every character in this show, extra, side, main, doesn't matter. Each character has a personality and a backstory to them. Spike is a wise man with badass karate moves, life lessons and generally a backstory to cry over. Jet, man, who doesn't wanna be this guy? He's just cool and chill, he gets the job done, handles situations. Just a cool character. Faye Valentine is really a broken character who is trying to learn her past. And when you do learn it, you feel so sad for this character. Edward is wacky and love them. Enough said.

The animation is really well done even for a  1999 anime. For being some of the last anime to use hand drawn animation, it really is impressive. The music, ah. Man, the music. It's a mix of jazz and blues. Fuck me it's amazing. Each track is filled to the brim with amazing music. The opening is orgasmic and the ending is calming and just a beauty. 

Overall, this show is just bad-ass. That's the one word I can say about this show. It has good storytelling, likable characters, superb animation and orgasmic music. If I can say a couple of minor issues. The first 4 episodes are extremely slow paced and try to introduce you to the show, but trust me. It sure may be a little boring, but after those 4 episodes. Episodes 5 & 6 are simply not only some of the best episodes of the show, but the best episodes in all of anime and TV. That's the only complaint I have with this show. So please, do yourself a favor and go watch this masterpiece. Also, watch the English dub, this is one of the only times I prefer dub over sub.
        

Helpful


read more
