        
    Cowboy Bebop is an absolute classic. Most people would say this is 'the pinnacle of all anime shows'. While there are some aspects of the show I liked, to say that this is the BEST of the BEST seems a little far-fetched to me.

Cowboy Bebop is set in the distant future where space travel has been developed. Bounty hunters exist around the solar system to capture criminals and survive by being rewarded for their bounty. The story centres around 4 main characters - Spike Spiegel, Jet Black, Faye Valentine and Edward Wong Hau Pepelu Tivrusky IV (or Ed) and it tells us of their journeys

          
        and struggles.

I'll get a lot of the repeated praises out of the way first, before people completely disregard the whole review for the issues I had with the show.

The animation is splendid - that, I simply cannot deny. For a 1998 anime, the quality definitely rivals the most up to date ones and still surpasses a vast majority of them. The movements of the characters and attention to detail in the backgrounds are so crisp clean, it is virtually eye candy for any viewer.

Another thing Cowboy Bebop succeeds in is the soundtrack. The opening song 'Tank!' is one of the most iconic tune in anime history and will be immediately recognised by most anime watchers. Although the opening song and background music aren't suited to my tastes (by that I mean I wouldn't listen to them on my MP3 player) it sets the mood perfectly for a lot of the scenes within the show. Another compliment goes to the ending theme song 'The real folk blues' which I frickin love (Now THAT is on my MP3 playlist).

As for the voice acting, both the English and Japanese voice actors/actresses have done a wonderful job bringing the characters to life. Their performances in their own respective languages has virtually no flaws. So if you ask me which language to watch it in, it would be - it doesn't matter, both are good, it really is up to you.

Now here's where I must be careful of what I say...

So why couldn't I enjoy this as much as the 99% of people who declare that this is the definition of masterpiece? I guess the main reason would be the episodic nature of the show. Of course this is subjective from person to person. I personally would have liked to see the characters have an overall goal where a satisfying conclusion is met rather than individual episodes with their own plots.

But that isn't where the real problem lies. A good show should have a great start which draws the viewer in, a strong central story where character development can take place and finally, it should have a memorable ending. Unfortunately, the first few episodes of Cowboy Bebop aren't that entertaining. It's average at best but nothing spectacular to draw the audience into the show, if anything pretty standard fair to introduce all the characters.

It picks up its pace and starts to get interesting when it reaches the episode 'Ballad of Fallen Angels' (episode 5). I don't want to spoil anything, but this is the first episode where the anime gets more serious. We learn a little about Spike's past and it starts to get more fascinating... BUT here's where I feel Cowboy Bebop fails at. The episode just ends. It side tracks to something else. The next episode is something completely different, which isn't necessarily a bad thing but it feels that what I've just seen gets abandoned - tossed to the side. Any tension built up from the previous episode is just gone and this happens throughout the show and I get really irritated.

I want to know more, but it never gives me that satisfaction. It's like the series is about to show something interesting, but then completely forgets about it in .5 of a second. It would be okay if the episodes after the 'serious' ones were JUST AS fascinating. But this simply isn't the case. They are decent/fine at best and this contrast from watching something amazing to plain average constantly gives the feeling of disappointment. Now this doesn't make it a bad show. It just means the series is average to worth watching at best but nothing spectacular for it to be called a 'masterpiece'.

One more thing to add to the individual plots for the other episodes. It is either hit or miss in terms of how entertaining it is. There were some which I would have liked a continuation of, however, in most cases it just ends. It isn't a coincidence that the only episodes I genuinely enjoyed were the ones where they reveal a little about why the characters are the way they are now - a prime example would be Faye Valentines past. And as for the other episodes, I feel "meh" towards them.

Finally, for the ending... it's very good... I don't want to talk about it as it contains spoilers. All I can say is, it's a very fitting way to end the show. (yay! another compliment!)

Maybe I'm being too harsh in this review... hmm... okay... so if the story isn't a masterpiece, surely the characters should be able to 'carry' the series - so entertaining that simple actions by them make the whole show a masterpiece. Unfortunately, they aren't the most jaw dropping fascinating characters I've seen. Now before you shoot me down with a bazooka: allow me to explain; the main characters are very interesting but I feel that the show does nothing with them. I understand that Spike is supposed to be cool but the story doesn't do much to show that. Yes he is good looking, yes he has a sense of justice, yes he fights like a boss but... that seems like a stereotype to me. I would have liked to know more about his past, what did he suffer to become the way he is? Why is he so attached to Julia? These kind of questions pop-up not just for Spike but for the other main characters too. One possible reason for this could be Cowboy Bebop only has 26 episodes, it's quite difficult to explain everything in such a short time span.

Though the biggest problem for me was the supporting characters. I simply didn't give a damn about them. I wasn't particularly attached to them nor were they particularly memorable. Naturally for an episodic show like this, there are guaranteed to be characters which will be more interesting than others. The problem is, I felt no attachment to approximately 95% of the characters.

Let me give an example of one of the supporting characters, Vicious. He is the most interesting support character (in my opinion) and is supposedly the villain of the show but I can't help but question things like "why is Vicious like this?", "why is he supposedly the villain?", "what are his motivations?" It feels as though he's just there for us to 'agree' that he is a bad guy when there's no real reason for it. This is what I mean by the contrast of the serious episodes to the non-serious ones. I'm about to learn something from Vicious but the next episode just completely abandons the idea with the metaphorical 'episodic reset button'.

All in all though, the main characters aren't bad but they aren't ones where I would stare in awe at everything they say. The supporting characters are - well to put it bluntly, weak. By that I mean they simply aren't memorable and it's not something where you would look back and go "maaan that young child who shot Spike is so cool - he's one really likable character" I hope at least one or two people can catch the gist of what I'm trying to say.

Now, let me just say Cowboy Bebop is by no means a bad show. Far from it actually. It passes with flying colours in the presentation aspect but I simply couldn't buy into the episodic style of the story with characters that didn't really do anything. I just don't think it truly is the 'pinnacle of all anime shows'. However, it harbours a 'worth watching' in my rating system and should be viewed by anyone as it is STILL a classic.
        

Helpful


read more
