        
    Cowboy Bebop is different from other anime in that it does not focus on a linear storyline to progress through the series. It is like a series of short stories that all use the same characters in different scenarios to see how they react when presented with a challenge. However, not all the sessions are disconnected. As we get further into the series, we delve into the past of each character, which gives us a better understanding of how and why each of them act the way they do. This show is more character driven than anything, and because of the memorable characters it provides,

          
        Cowboy Bebop is a masterpiece. 

Story/ Pacing - 9/10
I rate the story a 9 although, as I said before, there is not really a linear storyline. Bebop is not your typical anime in that it is episodic. Each "session" presents the characters with a different problem, whether it be chasing another bounty or solving a personal issue. These are usually resolved within the same session, save for the pair of two-parters and the many questions about the characters and their backstory. In fact, most of the sessions do not seem to be connected because of the difference in plot. However you soon find this to be untrue as more and more is uncovered about the history of each character. The story does not deserve a perfect score because the show's focus is not on the story, but instead atmosphere and the characters.

Art - 9/10 
Cowboy Bebop is often seen as a classic anime not only because of the reception it received, but its age. Going on 16 years since its release, it has that retro art feel that can be compared to a Miyazaki film. Every scene is filled with incredible detail, and the characters are no exception. Everything in this anime looks beautiful. There is no laziness in the animation itself, which makes everything flow and look natural. 

Sound/Music - 9/10 
This is a difficult portion to judge. The voices many times are quite grainy and echoey, but it is important to remember that this is an older anime and the sound standards have been improved since its debut. In my opinion it doesn't take away from the show or experience whatsoever, but that is up to the viewer to decide. The music is really what makes the sound category worthy of praise. The introduction song, Tank!, gets you excited for the upcoming events with its fast pace beat and memorable "3, 2, 1, Let's jam" to get things rolling. The music is placed perfectly alongside events so to help convey the emotions of the characters.

Characters - 10/10
The characters are really what make this anime special. All of them bring a unique personality to the table, making the crew well rounded. These differing personalities do clash, but nonetheless, it is obvious how close the crew gets. All of them have mysterious pasts that are uncovered as you progress through the series. Every question that comes up should be answered by the end (depending on how you view the series conclusion). As I've stated before, the show's primary focus is on the history of each character and their individual desires regarding resolving personal crises. They are truly a memorable cast and are the main reason this show is a classic. 

Enjoyment - 10/10
This section is much less objective than the others because someone can tell you all the contributing factors that make a show good or bad but it is up to the viewer to decide whether or not they actually enjoy it. I found it incredibly easy to enjoy because the pacing is never slow and something interesting is always happening. This is thanks to the episodic nature of the series, which allows almost every session to tell another story. 

Overall - 9/10 
This show is a masterpiece. It's aesthetic value alone makes it a work of art. The Wild West influences and incredible amount of musical references make it appealing to a wide demographic. The use of sessions rather than linked episodes catalyzes a pace and storyline that both make the series very entertaining. The characters are all unique and very easy to get attached to. All these elements came together to create the perfect storm that is Cowboy Bebop. If you have not seen it already, I highly recommend that you take the time to do so. 

See you space cowboy...



Helpful


read more
