          
    Going into this series, I was expecting a lot. I was consistently hearing that this was one of the all time greatest animes. I also kept hearing how great its English Dub is, so of course I watched it dubbed. It 's also the first series I've watched to follow a episodic narrative design, where each episode was treated like a miniature movie. So after finally getting to watch this legendary series here's what I thought of it.

Story:9/10
Brilliantly written and very sophisticated. The main plot revolves around the main characters' past and it explores that in such a beautiful way. Due to it's narrative design

          
        we are given so many memorable episodes with my personal fav being episode 20, "Pierrot Le Fou,' Each episode contains a different story approach and it gives us different genres. And although it wasn't as action packed as DBZ or Bleach, this series had great and memorable action in particular the shootout scenes. This series also had one of the best conclusions ever, it ended in a bang. The only problem I had here was that it suffered a lil bit from exposition.

Art:10/10
This was the one area that impressed me the most. This series came out in the 1990s yet it looks better than most animes I've watched in the 2000s. The animation never lost consistency and it was fluid as water. The movie quality was great as like I said, each episode felt like a short movie. Visuals were great and very detailed and none of the character designs felt out of place. Every character here was drawn in a very realistic way.

Sound:10/10
This is where Cowboy Bebop stands out from most animes. For one it has SUPERB voice acting. It wasn't over the top at all and everyone's voice fit and Spike sounded so cool. The dub is so great that I honestly believe it to be superior to the Japanese version. And of course the soundtrack, one of the best any person can hear in ANYTHING. The opening song, ending song, to its beautiful jazz flowing in the background, the music perfectly matched the show's atmosphere. If I was blind and had only my ears, this anime will still heavily satisfy me.

Character:9/10
The development here is incredible but what really stands out is that we really connect wit these characters like their actual people. And really love the relationships between the main characters cuz although they don't always get along their all they have and it leads to some emotional moments. The main antagonist here is great cuz although not overly powerful, the character plays a huge impact on the main character. Whenever these two were together you'll almost cry inside cuz their past is so deep.

Final Verdict

One word, masterpiece. Simply one of the greatest animated works you can ever find. Cowboy Bebop is just too important to the anime world and its one series that all of us needs to see. This series is all about style, and when it comes to style there's no better anime out there than this. With its beautiful animation, great music, and endearing characters, there's no doubt why Cowboy Bebop is considered to be the landmark title in Anime.
        

Helpful


read more
