      
    Cowboy Bebop is considered a masterpiece of an anime nowadays, and it was one of the first anime recommended to me when I started getting into anime. I was excited to get into the series, but that excitement unfortunately did not last. About halfway through the series, I had to keep forcing myself to watch another episode just so I could finish the series (I don't like stopping in the middle of a show), but I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's just start with the story.

There is no story. This is an episodic series, which isn't a problem in its own right, but isn't something

          
        I'm typically into. I prefer overarching plots that tell one cohesive story. However, I have enjoyed episodic series before, so I kept watching. I quickly got bored of the repetitive plots. The villains of each episode were hardly interesting because they didn't get enough time to do anything. That really goes for all the characters except for the core 4. There is never enough time to develop anything enough to the point where I actually care. The individual stories are fine on their own, but they just felt like a drag to get through together. I'll give a 6/10 since I did enjoy a good number of them, but the ones that I didn't just felt like a chore to sit and watch through.

I'm putting art and sound together because they are both fantastic, and it's hard to talk about one without the other. The animation is consistently fast and fluid, and the directing is amazing. The music almost always goes perfectly with each scene its in, and the OP of the whole series is one of the most catchy openings I've listened to. The dub of this series is also great, with each voice actor doing an amazing job for their respective characters. Both get a 9.

Now onto my main complaint, the characters. The core four characters, Spike, Jet, Faye and Edward are all very well developed, and I enjoyed watching them (except for Ed, she got annoying fast). The problems come with everyone else. As I've already said, none of them get the time they need for me to actually care about them. They have to establish the characters, and then, in the same episode, wrap up their stories, and that just isn't enough time. Spike, Jet and Faye were all great and well developed characters, but they are the only ones who I cared about in the entire series, so 4/10.

My enjoyment level for this series continued to go down with each episode. It felt like a chore to watch another episode, which is why it took me four months to finish this series. It did have some really great moments, and the action in the series was consistently very good. I can definitely see why this show got its cult status, it just wasn't for me. I'll give this another 4 for enjoyment, and overall I'd give it a 7/10. 
        

Helpful


read more
