       
    Ok, I knew this was an episodic anime going into it. I'm not the biggest fan of those but with everything I've heard about the show and how great it is I decided to give it a go. First couple episodes were pretty good so I thought 'I can get through this.' Cut to ep. 15 and now I'm struggling to finish it. The sound and dub are amazing, I'm not denying that but the story suffers majorly here. There's no real over arcing story line other than Faye's story and Spike's and even then they are really only mentioned in the second half with

          
        everything else feeling like they're fillers. The animation was nice with it before the digitization age with it feeling dark and everything with no real noticeable flaws. 

When we first see Julia and thereafter, I couldn't of cared less about her even after everything. I knew nothing about her or anything. Spike's backstory was jammed into the last two episodes with a couple hints throughout the anime so when the final two episodes happened it just seemed out of the blue which might be why I was so annoyed at the ending. I thought that something else was going to happen and it didn't. 

I especially didn't care didn't care about Edward. When she left I couldn't help but cheer. What was the point to her character being on Bebop? I couldn't understand. Yes, she's a hacker but that's all. And the way she spoke rubbed me the wrong way and felt so childish and out of place in the show. Not to mention she wasn't there for very long so again, I wondered what her purpose there was. 

Faye was amazing. I know some people don't like her but I enjoyed her character especially after we learn parts of her backstory which made her more intriguing in my mind. Her character was consistent through the show but there was some character development which was nice (unlike Edward). I couldn't help but laugh at her and Spike going back and forth.

Jet is an interesting one because even though he owns the ship Spike seemed to be the one in charge-most of the time. Jet will put his foot down and argue if he has to. There's a few other things that I can't think of right now but suffice to say I enjoyed him.

Spike...pretty much a walking contradiction until the last couple episodes but I won't grip about that here. He can be ruthless but compassionate. He tells Faye to stop living in the past when that's all he does and so forth. 

The show down between him and Vicious felt cheap I'm not going to lie but it did. The very ending I wasn't expecting but again, I felt a but cheated with how quick everything went. If that story line was the over arcing one throughout the whole series and that finale was stretched to three episodes instead of two than I think it could have worked better and flesh out Vicious a bit more because I couldn't of care less when the fight was going on since he didn't really seem like a villain to me. Maybe it's because I didn't watch the movie but he didn't really do it for me as a bad guy. 

Overall, if you like Bebop that's good. I had trouble with it because it was so light humoured until the last couple episodes so the tone was everywhere and it was purely episodic. Not to mention some of the characters did it in for me so I can gladly say I watched it but probably won't be one I'll rewatch. 
        

Helpful


read more
