         
    "Whatever your past, you still have a future."

One of the main characters Spike, says this in a particular episode of this series. This line stayed with me throughout the rest of the series & resonated during certain episodes. Eventually, this line formed what I thought was the big question that forms the plot of this of the show: Can you truly feel alive and have a future if you are constantly reminded of the past and how corrupted the world maybe you yourself are?

This question surrounds the main characters (Spike, Lee, Faye, and Edward) and some secondary characters they meet as they travel the galaxy

          
        hunting criminals with bounties on a ship called The Bebop. Each main character has interesting personalties and mysterious pasts that gradually get revealed as the series goes on.

Spike is a tough, aloof guy with impulsive tendencies who can handle a gun, pilot a ship, and do martial arts. He is also empathetic in toward others in a big brother kind-of way. Jet is a pilot and mechanic who equally tough with guns, level headed (rarely impulsive) and empathetic in a fatherly way. Faye is a woman who is frivolous with money, has avoidance tendencies, and can handle a gun and won't hesitate to use her feminine charms to make other men drop their guard. Last but not least, Ed is an androgynous and energetic genius hacker who is very free-spirited and child-like.

As for the secondary characters, many are notable because they either serve as commentary on the real world in and/or they are sympathetic. One example is an animal rights group that threatens to turn people into monkeys unless they stop hunting a certain animal. Another notable aspect of the secondary characters is that they are diverse in body, race, gender, sexual orientation, age, and personality. The depiction of gay and intersex people in this anime is really progressive when you consider that the anime was made in the late 90's. Also, the way many dark-skinned characters are sprinkled throughout the anime is nice too b/c they are rarely seen in anime. 

Besides the plot and characters, the world building is really creative because it mixes several genres including spaghetti westerns, sci-fi, noir, and in one episode slasher films. This created the major themes of the anime (nostalgia and freedom) and makes you want to keep watching to see what the characters will encounter next.

In addition to the plot, characters, and world building, the soundtrack is incredible. Composed by Yoko Kanno, the soundtrack is rooted in jazz (specifically bebop jazz), but also features other genres like heavy metal and a dash of J-Pop. The fast-paced upbeat bebop jazz really compliments action scenes well. Furthermore, the opening title theme & its visuals are truly striking and memorable.

Last but not least, the animation is really beautiful at times and not so beautiful at others. The beautiful moments  are focused on the sky, like in one scene where Spike is smoking while watching the sunset. The not-so-beautiful moments come during the jump to hyperspace.

Overall, this was a really entertaining and enjoyable anime. If you are interested in sci-fi or saw Samurai Champloo first like I did & enjoyed it, then give this anime a try. 




Helpful


read more
