            
    First review here, new to MAL, and maybe not read that much. But still, allow me to give my point.

At the time of watching Cowboy Bebop, I was watching animes since a lot of time, and I was watching many at the same time. The kind of period when you were following more than the half of the series in a season. Finally I got tired of that, and the enjoyment was not the same. And then I wanted to watch Cowboy Bebop.

Why is Cowboy Bebop such a great anime? Why is it considered as a masterpiece? I wanted to know, I wanted to be

          
        part of it -if there was something to be a part of. But still, I couldn't forget Angel Beats. All my friends were telling me "man, it's so awesome". Well, check it out, it got only a 5 on my list. I'm not THE guy, but still, I was bored by this "masterpiece", or whatever my friends were telling me.

So what, I started Cowboy Bebop, let the magic do its stuff alright? So I was in. It's nice, I like it. I don't see any masterpiece here but hey, who cares, we'll see later. Oh the episode is already finished? Well, I played the second. And the third. And again and again. Watching the show wasn't that amazing. But I was so in it... When the last episode finished, I understood. I realized I watched something amazing. I haven't felt something like that since my first shots with series like Steins;Gate or Madoka.

Let me explain more: everything is just perfectly right, at the right time, with the right tempo and the best way to do it. It's not just something remarkable that you can point out, like SAO's first season is wonderful, but the ALO season is quite useless and really bad. Everything here is just fucking right (forgive me).

The story is wonderful, from the start to the end, including every background introduced. This is a point were old series can be boring, because the pace is slow, there are useless episodes. In Cowboy Bebop, forget it. Every episode is right, and the progression is really good. When you finish an episode, you sure want the next one. So it's a 10 I guess.
The sound is fantastic. Why? Because it's jazz and blues. What could be cooler than that? Seriously guys, the sound design is great, and the soundtrack is 20% cooler than any other. Go for it! And thank you Yoko, I love you.
The characters. Well, it goes with the story to me, mostly because each character has a good personnality, they understand each other, their interactions are right. They are deep, they smoke (oh my god they smoke it's so cool! I don't but it's so fucking cool!)... I don't know what to say, they're perfect! They just fit right in the global atmosphere of the show.

It's obviously an overall 10. No less. Because when you start Cowboy Bebop, you finish Cowboy Bebop. It's just amazing, and you have to realize it, at least when you finish it.
        

Helpful


read more
