      
    Story 6/10

I mean it is not a bad story but is it really that "great"? A bunch of bounty hunters and a kid link up to go on adventures together while exploring a rather bland world set in space. The stories (episodes) could have been more exciting, with more plot twists, big reveals and emotionally driven. Frankly it was too straight forward for me to consider it anything amazing.

Art 8/10

For a 90s anime it has aged very well. The spaceships are very unique and the environment represent space travel dystopian suited to its time.

Sound 9/10

At first I was like "this OP is garbage and ED

          
        is okay". Then as it went on, I discovered the soundtrack within the episodes to be the best part of the series for me personally. The songs are varied, the instrumentals are atmospheric and certain tracks fitted with the scenarios perfectly. Although I warn you, I only started to appreciate it later in the series.

Character 6/10

I think I would have touched a nerve with scoring the characters this low but  they are mediocre. They are not particularly interesting when you compare them to something like One Piece where every character whether side or main are filled with so much personality. Spike is cool, Ed fluffy, Faye feisty and Jet a boring old man but these are pretty one dimensional (with interesting backstories I guess). But nothing about them gripped me, maybe they were too "ordinary".

Enjoyment 7/10

Now I'll go into detail of what I enjoyed and didn't.

As mentioned briefly, the adventures are not that exciting besides Spike episodes. Luckily he got the most screen time. 

Then we hit episode 12 and everything became a little more interesting with Faye's back story just starting then my interest tailed off again. By episode 20 I was a bit discouraged to finish it. Due to its episodic nature you are literally judging episode by episode. One minute it's interesting next minute it's average. It depended on the character in focus a lot of the time. Spike and Faye would captivate me briefly then Jet and Ed would bore me (bar the mushroom episode with Ed was fun).

Although, it ended very strongly - Episode 24 left me with a weird feeling. Seeing that certain characters were potentially leaving made me feel sad. I can't remember when my attachment to them creeped up on me but it just did. The sound track had placed it's role perfectly.

So the last few episodes were great. Suddenly everyone opened up about their true feelings and suddenly the characters came to life. But it was too little too late, it was not worth all 26 episodes. I would have rather just watched Spike/Faye related episodes or a movie that summarised it all.

The Anime does very little wrong. It doesn't engage in fan service or annoying anime tropes. Everything feels authentic and true to itself. If you enjoy the characters interactions you will enjoy the episodic nature and that's the problem. It's episodic so there's no bigger story or world building to keep your imagination turning. There's nothing to get your heart racing, no complex theories to chew over, no back stories to pull your heart strings (wait Faye's nearly had me but they didn't go deep enough!). 

It's just every day life in space, well written with just the right amount of action. But I personally don't watch anime for this laid back sort of shows.Thus the wow factor didn't rub off on me. It didn't excite me enough. If I wasn't marathoning it, I doubt I won't anticipate an episode. I'll simply tune in if I had a spare moment.
        

Helpful


read more
