      
    Cowboy Beboop (ha) is an episodic anime with a dog. That is not a bad thing but that is essentially what is. The story is set in the future where the earth was partially destroyed and most humans live in space. It follows Spike and Jet, two cowboys (space bounty hunters) and their adventures in space.

This is an easy set-up for an episodic show to use because much like space the possibilities of an episodic show are infinite. It adds a few more mainstay characters that we learn about and that are interesting (including a dog!). The crew of the Bebop (Jet and Spike's ship)

          
        are nicely miss-matched group, even Spike and Jet, but it's this clash of personalities and characters make them all the more enjoyable as a group and as individuals.

In saying this the voice actors do a good portrail of their individual character (I watched the dub). They're many moments in the show that gave you the 'feels' as it were, so one couldn't really argue that the VA's weren't in it, at least as my memory of the show serves. Furthermore the score was well done and makes every scene better than they usually are and is one that'll definitely stick if your a jazz or slow jam person. In addition the OP is one I still enjoy to this day and really works well both as an OP and a stand alone song, the ED thought not as good makes each episode feel complete.

The art style looks worn, though that is only due to Bebop's age and either be a plus or a minus depending on the taste of the person. Everything in the world of cowboy bebop feels and looks real to a degree and the movements are descent. The stiller moments seem to shine for me more than the more action packed scenes but that's not to say they weren't good I just like the quieter moments in cowboy bebop more.

Lastly I'd like to say that I enjoyed Cowboy Bebop as both an idea and a show. I don't enjoy a lot of episodic shows because they get repetitive (Simpsons, Spongebob, Fairly Odd Parents) but Cowboy Bebop shuffles the focus every episode to offer a little something  for everyone. No episodes fealt the same or dealt with the same character or plot, which is to be expected of an episodic show and as such a lot of the plot comes at the end.

In conclusion if your looking for old, fun, gritty, and episodic anime that feels different every episode then Cowboy bebop is the show your looking for.      
        

Helpful


read more
