            
    this show is a touchy subject I find with a lot of anime fans. Me myself, I had always heard of this show growing up and thought it was boring as balls. Or I was too busy watching DraginBallZ. But now that I've matured, and had the chance to buy this show and watch it to it's fullest potential, I gotta say, it was one great investment. let's jam!

Story:
Well the story of Cowboy Bebop is pretty simple, a group of bounty hunters who want to do nothing more than make enough money to at least not starve to death in the galaxy. But the other

          
        half of the story is how each character  has a past that will come back to haunt them. See the story to Bebop is both awesome and hard to get people to watch. As I had watched GRarkada's review on it before watching it, he said the first four episodes would be a snooze compared to what the other episodes had in store for you. so if you want my recommendation it will be the same as his because it worked for me. watch episodes 5, then 6, then go back and watch episodes 1-4 and watch 7 all the way to the end. Trust me, it works.

Animation:
You gotta remember this show came out in 1998 and ended in 1999 people, you aren't getting any PA works animation here. But if you look at other anime from the time the show is pretty high standard for the time. The other good note for the animation, one being my personal thing that I like, is that the animation made the character's and their look feel bluesy. Another good note worth mentioning is that the action scenes are very smooth in execution, which is great cause that is one the best parts of the show is the action. 

Sound:
The sound in Cowboy Bebop is easily where this show shines the most, not even up for debate. This is the show that has one of THE best English dubs of all time, and if it's not the best, then it damn well was the first before this dub, dubs were SHIT! Steve blum as Spike Spiegel sealed the along with Bo billanger as Jet, and the voices of faye and ed were amazing as well (forgot the actress's names.) However as good as the dub is, the music in Bebop is just as perfect as well. the show has an amazing selection of music from jazz, to blues, being the genres the show has the focal point on, to even some metal tracks, nice acoustics, you name it, it's got it. Fun fact, the names of the episodes are musically inclined as well, such as bohemian rhapsody and heavy metal queen. absolutely amazing soundtrack.

Characters:
All the characters in Bebop are very well flushed out, and all very entertaining in their own way. The main character Spike, is as badass and to the tee of the rule of cool as it comes, Faye, the chick that may not be no martial arts master, but can hold her own with her sassy attitude and sensual trickery, Jet, who is more the wiseman of the group and Ed, the hyperactive comic relief which the show needed to add some color to the Bebop crew's rather down tone sometimes. And it works perfectly because they each bounce off each other so well the chemistry is great.

My personal enjoyment:
In all honesty, as much as I praise the shit out of this show, it's not for everybody. The show is episodic so I can see why people looking for a deep plot wouldn't like it. But if your looking for something simple/epic and fun as hell characters, there is few better to watch than Bebop. overall, it's a classic, and should be viewed as such.
        

Helpful


read more
