          
    This was an amazing watch. I can't believe I held out this long to watch it considering how popular this series is.

Story: 9/10

Cowboy Bebop is an episodic anime for the most part. While the premise is nothing complicated, the way every episode is delivered is distinct to each other but retains the factors that make this one unique to other series. Repetitions and cliche are rarely seen in Cowboy Bebop, which is very seldom nowadays in anime. The best thing about the story the storytelling is the way the episodic plot is tied with the main story, which is told sparingly but beautifully. It's rare

          
        to find an anime with an appealing plot and even rarer to find something with great delivery.

Art: 8/10

The art and animation are nothing spectacular compared to today's anime but was definitely better than most that came out in the late 90's. One important thing with Cowboy Bebop is the consistency of the animation. I barely saw any drop off in animation and art quality throughout 26 episodes. It's nice considering a lot of anime in the 90's or earlier weren't as consistent with their visuals. 

Sound: 10/10

Tank! by The Seatbelts is one of the most iconic anime openings of all time. Cowboy Bebop definitely one of the best anime of all time in terms of sound and music. The soundtrack is simply amazing, it's something many will enjoy. The special thing about the music is the variety and genre and how it's used in every episode. It really sets the tone and feel of each scene, which is done extremely well. Each piece nicely suits its purpose.

Characters: 10/10

Cowboy Bebop has an excellent set of characters ranging from the main ones and minor ones. It's the component that makes this series come alive and separate it from other anime. The main characters especially are well done. They're diverse, fascinating, have depth and most important of all, they gel really well together. You don't find a set of main characters like that very easily.  

Enjoyment: 10/10

It's been a while since I found an anime that I personally think deserves a 10/10. Many reasons can be given as to why I think this series was such an amazing series for me. You have the story, the music, the characters and just the feel and vibe of the anime. Only a handful of anime has given me this feeling of bliss as I have witnessed something astonishing and dreariness because it's finished. This one's really something else, enjoyment is without question a 10/10

Final verdict:

A lot of people claim it to be one of the best series not just of the 90's but of all time. I personally think that it is one of the best things that has ever happened to the anime industry. It's simply spectacular. 

Helpful


read more
