            
    Honestly anime is very hit and miss with me, either I love it to death or I hate it. This is an anime I love. I think it's a wonderful anime and, all in all I actually enjoyed all the episodes, which almost never happens with me and anime. I binge watched this in 2 days and now understand why this is largely regarded as a classic.

Story: 10/10

While the story is of an episodic nature,  every bits helps develop the characters and the universe, and such it doesn't feel filler at all. It's a great mix between sci fi and space opera, and there's

          
        effort done to give so credibility to the universe it's set in. Basically, it's set around a crew of bounty hunters in the years 2071, and their travels around the solar system looking for bounties. The setting is quite simple, but it's well executed, and every episodes adds a bit more to the characters stories, so that we learn every time a bit more of their past, and of their tragedies.

Which brings me to:

Characters: 10/10

The story is great in it's own way, but if it works so well it's because it's carried by such a great set of characters. From Ed the tomboyish hacker to Ein the Welsh corgi, every characters add something to the show, making it so much more interesting to watch? They are all well thought out and developed more and more as the series continue, making us learn of their pasts by small bits. The voice acting is great too and brings a lot to the characters. I've only watched the sub, but i've heard the dubs were great so I think I'm going to watch that next, to compare the two. 

Sound: 10/10

The soundtrack of this show is just amazing. from the OP,  Tanks!, that's energetic af and sets the tone for whats to come, and the ending song, the Real Folks Blues, it really sets up a great atmosphere. The background music itself is amazing too, and helps move the story along. It's not a forgettable soundtrack, that's for sure, and every bit of it, from the harmonica tune to the sax solo  works very well with it all. The ending song  changes twice, only for one episode each, but it works really well and shows significant twist in the plot. Especially after the last episode. The ending song there is just perfect to stare at  your screen...

Art: 10/10 

For a show made in 1998 the art and animation aged remarkably well. It doesn't look too dated and the colour scheme helps to set up this western-like vision of the future. The animation is smooth and fluid, and the fight scenes, in space or otherwise, are really a sight to behold. The characters designs are also memorable, and the background looks awesome. I found some of the skies particularly beautiful.

Enjoyement: 10/10

I think it's a trully enjoyable show. It can be comedic, serious, sometime even sentimental 
( cause let's be real at the end you do care about what happens to the characters) but there's not one episode I didn't enjoy. They might be weird, funny or serious, I think they all have their appeal and such the show has a great binge watch capacity.

Overall: 10/10

I honestly recommend this to everyone looking to start  a new show. It's just great, and for me at least truly deserves to be put among the masterpieces of anime. Of all the anime I saw so far I won't hesitate to say that this was by far the best yet.


Helpful


read more
