          
    Introduction:
On October 24th, 1998, Cowboy Bebop started its first full airing in Japan, it ended the next year on April 24th. It was later broadcasted in the United States as the first anime to ever appear on Adult Swim, and it still is broadcasted on a loop to this day. Now, as many of you probably know Cowboy Bebop is definitely a very popular anime, and it's no wonder it's still broadcasting today, even after most anime have left Adult Swim. Why is so popular though? Well the answer is simple, Cowboy Bebop is a very finely crafted, almost perfect creation that deserves every bit

          
        of popularity it gets. With that said, let's get started with the review.

Actual Review:
Let's start with a plot summary, Cowboy Bebop, follows a group of bounty hunters in the distant future who have various missions and members focused on each episode. There's Spike Spiegel, a cool and rowdy man who can fight very well, with a mysterious past to boot. Next, there's Jet, the founder of the Bebop crew and a former ISSP Officer, or a police officer if you prefer, with a missing arm and is the intelligence of the group. Then we have the lovely lady, Fei Valentine, a gambling, trouble making woman who has a mysterious problem. Lastly there's Edward, she's the crazy hacker from Earth who is the comic relief for a lot of the show, we will get to how that's a problem later.

Now that's pretty much it for the plot, that may not seem like much, but it is a lot bigger in execution. Like in my previous review Samurai Champloo, the plot doesn't really have much of an overarching story, it's mostly vignettes and character pieces that delve deeper into the cast or are just fun adventures to watch. Unlike Samurai Champloo however, these vignettes do actually develop the characters and have some interesting themes or surprises in them. Some make you think, others make you laugh, Cowboy Bebop really just has a very large range of tone. This is probably one of the show's greatest strengths, it really knows how to use its characters and setting, it also takes them seriously allowing for a greater sense of immersion.

This is of course all thanks to the direction and writing. This was Shinichiro Watanabe's first full director job and what a great job he did. Not to mention the gorgeous cinematography and use of lighting in the whole thing. There is rarely a sour beat in the whole show with only a few episodes being mediocre. Of course this is also because of the shows head writer Keiko Nobumoto, who has written other amazing anime such as  Wolf's Rain and Macross Plus. With shows like that under his belt it's no wonder the show turned out to have some very witty and engaging dialogue, filled with great character interactions and being able to create any emotion it desires.

There's also the gorgeous music, which was done by the stellar composer and goddess of all amazing anime music, Yoko Kanno. The soundtrack can range from passionate jazz to quiet ambience of instruments. There's also the scene near the end of Episode 5, Ballad of Fallen Angels, where they combine amazing visuals and great music to make you go into an orgasmic bliss. Really it's some stellar work by an already amazing artist.

Speaking of which both the openings and endings of the shows are also great. Tank!, which was also done by Kanno, is the opening for every single episode and get's me pumped to watch the show every time I see it. Not to mention it's hard not to tap your foot along to, it's probably one of the best openings ever conceived. The ending however, is a very passionate and beautiful ballad called, the Real Folk Blues. This ending while not my favorite is very good with a great vocals and visuals of Spike's past giving you a small glimpse of his character.

With that said and done, the animation is also gorgeous. This show was produced by Sunrise and if you don't know much about their studio, they have produced shows such as Gundam and Escaflowne, which also looked great. Cowboy Bebop also was one of the last shows to be hand drawn, instead of being animated digital technology used today. However, it's just as fluid if not better than a lot of shows that come out today. Also fun fact: while this show was technically made by Sunrise, most of the staff who worked on it later moved on to make Studio Bones who's first project was the Cowboy Bebop movie. So make take that as you may.

Then there's the world famous dub, which is even makes dub haters say, "If I watch a dub, it's Cowboy Bebop." Every character has the right voice and it, unlike many anime at the time, takes itself seriously enough to make it seem realistic. Steven Blum is amazing a Spike, Beau Billingslea gives Jet the right amount of grumpiness and reason, Wendee Lee gives an amazing performance as the arrogant Fei, and Melissa Fahn gives the right amount on insanity and smartness to the character of Edward. Not to mention all the side characters have great casting to, which I don't think even happened with the best dubs back then. There are very few, if any, stumbles in this dub and it has become an example of what all dubs should strive for.

So with all of these good things said about the show, does it have any problems? Well there are a few, but they are very minor so get prepared for some nitpicking. First off, Edward is kind of destroys the tone of some episodes. Now I'm ok with comic relief characters, really I am, but that's really one of Ed's only purposes. She is probably the least developed of the cast and while she does get a backstory, overall, she just kind of ruins some parts of the show. Not to say she like makes a whole episode of the show complete crap, that never happens, but she can seem just a little out of place in some of the shows 26 episodes. Really though, that's the shows biggest problem, besides that the other problems are mostly just extremely minor and won't ruin your overall enjoyment.

Verdict:
Really, there isn't much to say about Cowboy Bebop because really it's almost completely without flaw. There's no need to explain what's good about it because if there's something you don't like, there will probably be something you will like. There is nothing else I can say besides go see it, Bebop really deserves all the popularity and attention it gets. Before I go I'd also like to mention the Cowboy Bebop Movie, which is a basically just an episode of the show, but much longer and with equally great writing. I recommend that you watch it after you finish the series. Also this show was distributed by Bandai Entertainment, though there apparently going out of business, so you should probably get a copy before the show becomes really expensive. Then again, I doubt this show will stay unlicensed for long after Bandai's demise... So in the end, go see Bebop, you have nothing to lose except free time.

Score: 9.7/10 (Round that up to ten on MAL)

Helpful


read more
