       
    Cowboy Bebop is set in the future well intergalactic travel is normal and everyone has their own spaceship. Spike Spiegel and his partner Jet Black are two bounty hunters and owners of the spaceship Bebop. Later joined by Faye Valentine, Ed and Ein, the group fly around in space, taking on bounties to survive. Each bounty they take is more trouble than they are worth but they take them with good hearts and a good sense of humor. You learn more and more about each character as the series rolls on a grow strongly attached to each of them by the end.

The series is very

          
        episodic in a way that each episode has no real relation to each other, except the double part episodes. There isn't really a story to be told aside from the group hunting bounties and Spike dealing with his past. That is the reason it took me so long to watch this series. Although I enjoyed watching the characters and their adventures, I found it rather hard to start the next episode. There wasn't exactly a draw that hooked me into watching it. That, however was my only problem with the series. Aside from that, I thought it was absolutely fantastic.

The characters are absolutely phenomenal. Many episodes explain more about each characters past and makes you grow attached to each other them. I can't say there was a character that I disliked from this series as they were all so different and so interesting to watch. My personal favorite was Faye. I don't want to give anything away, but she has a couple rather interesting episodes that bring tears to my eyes. Each character has somewhat of a sad past, each of them having someone they loved and lost and rediscovering them in different ways. 

I watched it dubbed because I heard that the dub was amazing and many say even better. I thought it was great, no complaints at all. It's not in a setting where Japanese culture matters, I suppose. The music is jazzy and the intro will be stuck in my head for the rest of my life. I don't care too much for art from the 90's but for an anime from 1998, I thought it looked amazing. One thing I do want to point out though, was that everyone in the anime appeared human. I don't know exactly how much of space they explored or how many planets they go to, but everyone was human. It's not a complaint or anything, just pointing that out.

Aside from the patchy story, I thought Cowboy Bebop was an amazing anime. It was really entertaining, the action is violent, the characters are lovable, the humor is rich, pretty much everything you could ask for.

Likes:
-All the characters were fantastic, learning about a characters backstory is something I love and Cowboy Bebop explains each of theirs incredibly well.
-"SEE YOU SPACE COWBOY..." was something I loved seeing at the end of each episode, it's so small and simple yet I absolutely loved it.
-I really wish I could fly around in space and hunt bounties across the stars

Dislikes:
-The ending really bothered me, not exactly the ending really, but what happens leading to the ending. If that makes sense.
        

Helpful


read more
