          
    Shinichir Watanabe's badass space western Cowboy Bebop prepares viewers for an exciting adventure of the galaxy's hottest new frontiersmen. As an intricately crafted composition of natural characters, passionate music, dark tones, and relatable themes, this epic stands the test of time as one of Japanese animation's finest masterpieces.

Story (read the synopsis first!)

Structurally, episodes, throughout the series and hereafter referred to as "sessions", focus on isolated events, pertaining either to a particular bounty, backstory, or random "filler" event. Fans of stories that are less structured and more character oriented will be satisfied in that sense, as the main plot of Spike's conflict with crime lord Vicious

          
        and the Red Dragon crime syndicate appears in tight bursts throughout the series. However, despite the disjointed pattern, the series flows in a way that leaves the viewer feeling satisfied and never disconnected from any particular character.

A welcome positive of the writing is the no-holds-barred attitude the writers take in regards to the plot. The world of Bebop is a harsh, unforgiving world, and even down to the gritty end we find that no single character is safe. Though at times you may feel emotionally pained over a decision they made, in the end you'll understand it was the right one to make.

Despite most episodes being good fun, Cowboy Bebop thematically provides a strong insight into the nature of isolation, purpose of existence, and consequences of the past. Spike is the principal instrument used by writers to convey thematic discourse, though mirrors of this behavior is seen in equally troubled partners Faye and Jet as well. Without spoiling too much, know that you'll view the deeply human struggles of the protagonists (and antagonists) with an air of familiarity and understanding.

Genre and Characteristics

Now, we can't be having "cowboys" and "bounties" without a little action, can we? Cowboy Bebop is a western by design, and with that comes adventure, hardship, and yes, fighting. Between hand-to-hand combat, bar fights, cosmic dogfighting, and katanas (yes, fucking katanas), a viewer's bloodlust will consistently be sated through the variety of action scenes present. Honestly, for the time in which this series was released, you'll be thoroughly impressed by how awesome everything looks.

As the series is set in a futuristic version of today's galaxy, science fiction plays an integral part in world development. Spaceships and hyperspace gateways replace most of today's logistics of automobiles and highways. Earth has been made mostly inhabitable, and as a result, humans live mostly on other planets in the solar system (notably Mars). Each planet retains its own personality and atmosphere, shown vibrantly through the respective color palettes, architecture, and populations. Multi-culturalism is heavily prevalent throughout the locales, with regions mimicking that of Tijuana, New York, or Beijing. Telebroadcasts are often noted as being available in multiple languages, leading us to believe there is a sense of globalism and unity throughout the galaxy. Watanabe's colonized galaxy certainly does create an interesting perspective of what the future for humanity may be like.

Animation

Surprisingly enough, Cowboy Bebop retains animation quality advanced for its time. Watanabe and Sunrise Studios overall proved themselves throughout as being able to maintain a high standard of quality. There's a certain amount of fluidity present within most motions, and characters react naturally and often under a given circumstance.

I found myself constantly in awe with was how stellar (no pun intended) the cinematography was throughout the anime. Watanabe understood how vital camera shots were to conveying what was to be expressed. When new locales are introduced, there was a frequent use of panning long shots to convey the relative size of the world. A juxtaposition is formed between the characters and the world, showing how insignificant humanity is to the greater above, tying in well with the thematic tone of the anime. Atmosphere is never in question with how masterfully each one is produced. Color tones, camera angles, and character placement all help to convey the intended feeling of a shot.

One of the common "sins" found within anime is that the "show, don't tell" rule is often disregarded in favor of a dialogue driven exposition. The latter is true for Cowboy Bebop, as we learn of the lore of the future galaxy through visually seeing it. For example, despite being a civilization that has managed space travel, there are still many pockets of poverty present as evident in many episodes. Spike's mysterious past is never spoken out in detail, rather throw short, ambiguous flashbacks that form the pieces to a greater puzzle. There's a certain degree of interactivity present that gives the viewer a stronger connection than had he or she just been explicitly lectured.

Sound

I can't think of very many other titles, save maybe for the cousin of Samurai Champloo, that have soundtracks as distinctly stylized as Cowboy Bebop's. Loyal to the name, jazz is the specific theme that composer Yoko Kanno intended for the series, and it's a theme that fits well. The spirit of expression, improvisation, passion, and divergence is indeed the character of Cowboy Bebop. Kanno masterfully utilized the tracks at fitting times throughout the series, greatly emphasizing the intended tone of a scene. One of the greatest analogies I can think of would be how well Susumu Hirasawa organized the abstract composition for Berserk ('97-98).

The voice acting, as is to be expected with such a critically acclaimed series, is fantastic. Cowboy Bebop is one of the few animes that can proudly say it has a dubbed version, so it is the viewers choice which version they'd like to hear. Personally, though this may conflict with most western enthusiasts, I prefer the Japanese voice actors.

Both the opening and ending tracks, "Tank!" and "The Real Folk Blues", respectively, are my all-time favorites. Kanno knew well how to begin and end the series, as the former gets you hyped up to all hell and the latter leaves you a pensive, emotional wreck. Ready yourself.

Characters

If the world is the framework, the soundtrack the soul, and the animation the paint, Bebop's characters must be the muse. Cowboy Bebop is uniquely designed in that the story forms around the characters rather than the opposite. A certain amount of incredulity is eliminated when characters are written so well they speak as normal people. Watanabe didn't want to spin a tale, rather relay an epic of five adventurers.

To that end, we don't see the crew as tools of a story, rather a group of friends that could be considered a family (albeit fairly dysfunctional). Spike is our flawed but lovable antihero, Jet his hardworking, moralistic foil. Faye the seductive femme fatale with a tendency for certain vices. Edward is our eccentric but useful hacker, and Ein the intelligent pupper. They're a ragtag bunch, but damn it, they work well together, and you grow to love them with each session.

Enjoyment

Needless to say, Cowboy Bebop was a wild ride. Session after sessions, my satisfaction never wavered. There's a certain richness to this series that gets you drunk off it, always lusting for another bounty.

Part of what made the show so fun for me was its westernized tone. While in Japan this may have been seen as foreign and intriguing, for those of us in the West, we see this as familiar and welcoming. Cowboys are kind of our thing, you know? Seeing a skillfully written Japanese perspective on what entails a "space cowboy" presents a fun experience for us western folk. It's funny how on both sides of the coin it can be a positive.

Conclusion

The things that come to mind when I recall this anime come easily: cigarettes, smirks,  and woolongs. Funny how the slightest things can leave the biggest imprints, but that's exactly the intended effect. Be it the down-to-earth characters, comprehensive universe, or passionate scoring, the "new genre itself" Cowboy Bebop never leaves your heart. Even fifty-four years from now, no matter what new series are critically acclaimed, people will come back to and relive the experiences of that work with the same spark of excitement and adventure they once beared. We've all got a little space cowboy in us.

 "I felt like I was watching a dream Id never wake up from. Before I knew it, the dream was all over." -Spike Spiegel
        

Helpful


read more
