        
    Since being a critic means writing tons of words, people often think of us as pretentious assholes who cant have fun. Some critics swallow that crap and then write meaningless bullcrap instead of admitting they enjoyed a stylish, flashy story. The easiest way to recognize it is when a series is said to be about existentialism. Thats so general, but so useful. After all, that stream of philosophy is huge and you can insert anything into it.

Since I dont care about my image, Im not going to claim Cowboy Bebop is about existentialism when I cant back it up. I have no shame in admitting

          
        I love a story thats all about flash, action and amusing characters. Thats what Cowboy Bebop is and its proof that mere storytelling is an art too. There are a few touching moments and the last episodes push for something more profound, but until then there isnt any depth. Why should it have any when Mushroom Samba is one of the best anime episodes ever?

Watanabe taglined the show as a new genre unto itself and later called it an exaggeration. Thats like the fastest runner in the world saying hes slow. Cowboy Bebop never runs out of steam or ideas. It always has a wide-eyed sense of wonder and always excited what other stories it can tell. Many of the tropes are recognizable, but nothing is a missed chance.

The approach is akin to a band that tries a new genre with every song. People who complain about the episodic nature miss the point. The series has a wider reach than nearly every anime out there. Pretty much every episode is a whole different genre. The characters and art style are the same, but even the color schemes change. Mushroom Samba and Cowboy Funk are experiments with Comedy and have brighter colors. Toys in the Attic experiments with horror and is noticeably darker.

Even pacing and side-character design changes. The aforementioned Mushroom Samba has far wackier character design than Speak Like a Child, one of the more introspective episodes. The series doesnt simply borrow a lot from Western fiction but distills it to one show. It had mass appeal because it had a wide reach  whoever you are, theres something to like her.

Convincing the viewer that the world in your anime exists is difficult. Calling things realistic or unrealistic isnt enough, since you first have to know what reality is (or, more correctly, how people perceive reality). The solid blocks dont define reality. Spaceships and cities on the moon arent automatically unrealistic. If you told people from 1000 years ago that anime will exist theyll think youre possessed by a devil.

Reality and real life go deeper than this. Reality is, among things, confusing and has a lot of sides. If it didnt we wouldnt need to create art. The most realistic anime are the most far-reaching ones. An anime is more realistic the more it can contain different moods and different people. It doesnt matter whether you live as a drifter or in a small community  life has all kinds of things going for it.

The show has bounty hunters in space, loud gunfights and a failed experiment that learned to fly. Its still more realistic  and thus more alive than most anime out there. The variety in mood and texture of the events brings it to life. I couldnt imagine a show having a fat balloon assassin feeling realistic.

The cast is also a prime example of how to have an ensemble. Spike isnt the main character. Theyre all are. Their personalities arent simply different but connected, there is chemistry here. Jet isnt just a contrast to Spikes apathy, but a more warm figure for the damaged Faye and the young Ed. Spikes apathy and cockiness is what puts him at odds with Faye but their greed is what they share and what unites them. Ed herself is a sun in the group of depressed individuals. The characters dont act out of convenience but on their inner drives, and each of their reactions is uniquely theirs.

Variety itself isnt enough, of course. You need more than the basics of having different episodes with different styles and moods. The narratives are always tightly focused. The world is full of great anime, but few deserve the award of no useless shots. Except for the plot-heavy episodes (which dont really work anyway), every shot equals progress.

Its worth noting that Cowboy Bebop isnt a dialogue-heavy show. It borrowed this from the film noire genre. Unlike noires bad side, Bebop doesnt rely on dark shots to let you things are dark. Rather, it doesnt use a lot of dialogue because it doesnt need to. The shots are informative enough, and so are never boring.

The series only flaw is the grand story behind it focusing on Spikes past. The series doesnt exactly lose focus, but confidence. Up until then the defining trait was elegance. Everything was small, but it was enough that counted for a lot. Suddenly we have this huge backstory of broken hearts and smoking guns and overthrowing a criminal syndicate. The last two episodes, while having decent actions, end up mostly as a collection of serious dialogue and dark staring. It survives only on the shows natural charm. This is one route that demanded a whole new way of storytelling. Its nice of Watanabe to try but it didnt work.

Cowboy Bebop is a great anime not because its philosophical, influential or borrows a lot from Western fiction. Its brilliant because its a masterpiece of pure storytelling. There are no useless parts in these 23 or so episodes. Each story is different both in events, pacing and mood. People who are uncomfortable with this will make stuff up about existentialism but its their loss. Regardless of who you are, theres something to enjoy here.

4.5 trippy mushrooms out of 5
        

Helpful


read more
