        
    What is the measure of a classic? 

The dictionary would suggest that a classic is: n. is an outstanding example of a particular style; something of lasting worth or with a timeless quality; of the first or highest quality, class, or rank  something that exemplifies its class. Something that stands the test of time, is remembered fondly, and has continued appeal. 

Historically, the world classic itself typically imbues a connotation of antiquity- Greeks, Romans, ancient literature, artwork, even music. It inspires originality and derives from that a long-lasting impact.

The audience would likely suggest a less abstract definition and instead give examples. In film, you'd

          
        get a Citizen Kane or a Sunset Boulevard or a Rear Window. In television, a wider range of things.

There are even such things as "modern classics", like my beloved Ringtone Rap.

In anime, the definition of classic- well... that debate is still hotly contested. One name, that continually rises up through sifting of the ever growing mound of coarse sand that is anime however, is that of Cowboy Bebop. 


Bebop checks off all the boxes for an enduring, beloved series- it has the characters, it's easy to follow, it's got the tunes, a tightly controlled artistic direction that sets it apart from the rest of the pack, and most importantly- it's entertaining. There is a reason why certain shows like Seinfeld, Spongebob, Andy Griffith, The Flintstones, Friends, Star Trek, and many others continued to air on TV long after their expiration date: accessibility. Many of the longest running shows on television center on a long running, slow unfolding story arc, often involving a large family or group of them- such as Dallas, the Sopranos, or Game of Thrones. They tell interwoven stories with a myriad of characters over a period of years, and as such, length of the show is hampered only by the creative output of the creators. 

To create such a show that, within its relatively short length of 26 episodes (everything listed above numbers in the hundreds of episodes, or will, by the end of the run) manages to cover such a wide range of topics and stories in a self contained format is a feat indeed. One of the most common criticisms of scripted shows like this are their episodic or short arc nature. The people want a singular story to follow- a goal, a direction. Episodic series often feel uneven in tone and pacing, not to mention disjointed due to the constant shift and restarting that's necessary to keep the show accessible to new viewers who may not have seen previous episodes. 

Cowboy Bebop doesn't necessarily rely on viewers to have seen all of the preceding episodes to be able to enjoy any given episode, and to me, this is one of the great charms the show has- the ability to pick it up wherever, and enjoy it. I think this is also why it's had lasting success on Adult Swim since its original airing in 2001. Bebop is a lot of fun to watch, no matter where in the series you pick it up; and that enjoyability is due in no small part to the writing and direction. Certain long running shows can have very interesting plots, and be loaded with poorly written characters, but still manage to garner a large viewing audience who want to follow along- shows that have intriguing concepts, but poor execution. 
For an episodic series like Bebop to succeed, the emphasis doesn't necessarily need to be on making every single story plot the most interesting and wacky thing out there, but rather to be anchored by /characters/ you want to watch interact and react to situations. Indeed, it is characters that drive this story, and not the other way around. 

A show's greatest sin is to be unentertaining. If a show is "boring", it has failed at its' most fundamental level- being entertainment. 


Boring, Bebop is not. The characters are unique, and how they work, play, and fight together is decidedly endearing. Each character has their charm and their wit. Spike, the central protagonist, is a mysterious James Bond-esque man of many skills- particularly in combat. Throughout the show, there are several overarching questions about his past, which are revealed through about 5 episodes throughout. However, this kind of information about the character is really just a bonus, because it takes all of one episode to know what kind of character he is: the sharp dressing, sardonic, quintessential cool- cigarettes, guns and all. He's not without depth or flaws, however. There's more behind the man than the mask of calm, cool, and collected. 
He is set opposite the very antithesis of calm, cool and collected in Faye- a beautiful young woman with an equally mysterious past that's explored in several later episodes. She plays an important role in the team though, instead of just being the token female or there for fanservice. She's another multifaceted character with more than meets the eye, and frequently steals the spotlight. 
The trio is rounded off with Jet- the "I'm too old for this crap" retired cop archetype. Jet exists as the grounded personality between Spike's frustration and Faye's outbursts, and generally serves as the voice of reason between the two extremes: his crewmates, hothead and impulsive. 

Soundwise, the show is superb. I make no secret of being a fan of Yoko Kanno, but this is the show that catapulted her to stardom in the anime industry. It's got a fantastic blend of moody orchestral pieces juxtaposed with the titular bebop jazz. There's funk, there's electronica, and there's even an episode devoted to heavy metal. A more diverse soundtrack you are unlikely to find, and there will certainly be something for everyone to enjoy with such a variety of tunes. As far as the voice acting goes, Steve Blum, Wendee Lee, and Beau Billingslea all do fantastic jobs as Spike, Faye, and Jet respectively. 

The art, too, is fantastic for the time. In 2017, Bebop could be considered an "old" anime, clocking in at a geriatric 19 years of age. Don't let the number fool you though, as the hand drawn art maintains a great consistency in quality and fluidity throughout the show's run. The show features a great variety in locales, vehicles, and characters. Due to the episodic nature, very few episodes take place in the same locations, and a number of different themes in art direction show up in the show. There are full on neo-noir episodes, complete with the black and white look, detectives, etc. and other more darkly colored ones with slow fades to reveal a what looks to be a puddle is actually blood. There are a number of western themed episodes, mafia, casino, and others. Definitely no shortage of different motifs. 

One of my favorite episodes was the magic mushroom episode, where, due to a food shortage, Spike, Faye, and Jet all end up eating psychedelic mushrooms they've mistaken for portabellas, and it's up to Edward to actually track down some real food. Though it's a silly episode played for laughs, it actually succeeds in taking a needed break from the action. The "Pierrot Le Fou" episode, which reminded me heavily of the 1992 Batman Animated series, involves a superhuman test subject that resembles The Penguin, who loses his mind and goes nuts, attacking anyone and everyone. The episode is downright creepy, and Spike's showdown with him at the end is quite clever, and, as mentioned before- really seems like a Batman episode. 

That said, and being episodic, some episodes are a mixed bag. A few that are supposed to be touching just felt a bit out of place, and others that were more comedic in tone fell a bit flat when it involved someone other than the main three. The recurring "Spike and Faye manage to screw up somehow and lose the bounty they're hunting, or they unexpectedly die" gag wears thin pretty quickly, and the formulaic nature of the first few episodes gets kinda old, too. The second half of the show is definitely where it all comes together though, and the ending was rather unexpected for a show of this type, and succeeded in grabbing me by the heart. 

All that to say: Cowboy Bebop is exactly what I would consider to be a classic.  

See you, Space Cowboy.
        

Helpful


read more
