       
    The almighty and legendary Cowboy Bebop. Well, here goes my best shot. 

Story: 7,5
At first to me it seemed like Cowboy Bebop will be an episodic anime, which ones are usually plain bad and become boring after a few episodes. But Cowboy Bebop is a proof that anime mustn't evolve a single plot straight only to conclusion. Truth be said most of the Cowboy Bebop episodes are fillers, but not to the bad meaning of the fillers that you usually see in Naruto or Bleach or any other anime.

In Cowboy Bebop these episodes are more like expansions off the characters and mini stories with

          
        their own thoughts and meaning. Almost all of the episodes have some points to make and are relevant to the characters. They allow you to get more attached to characters. Sometimes you get small flashbacks in some episodes and they improve your understanding of how human and realistic these characters are.

As for the plot relevant episodes I would really have wanted more of them, because they seemed to answer a lot of questions, but not enough to satisfy my curiosity. I really would want to know more about Spikes past. And the ending even though very cool and memorable for me seemed a bit dissapointing. Also if you think about it the main story is kinda cliche if not for the ending.

Visuals: 9,25
The visuals are more then you should ask for. Cowboy Bebop was made in 1998 and truth be it has put to shame other anime since 1998 to even now as for the visuals. The best I liked about it was how detailed it was, all the characters are easy to distinguish and backgrounds are very beautiful too. Backgrounds change a lot of times as the Bebop crew goes from different planets starting to mostly deserted planets to snowy cold planets. 

As for the animation it is very smooth and fluid, the action is very well choreographed and only once I saw repeated movement and I think it was done on purpose to make Ed look silly, not because the animators were lazy.

Sound: 10
Everything about sound is just WOW and awesome to the extreme. The opening is great and I didn't skip it once for all 26 episodes.

As for the background music there is a lot of it and even though it mostly consists of jazz, bebop and bluze it also had one episode with heavy metal and some other music too. The background music usually surprised me of how good it was all out through the series. That background music just made every major moment in this anime just so much more memorable and enjoyable.That's what you get from Yoko Kanno.

I personally only have seen the dub, but from what I heard it is one of the best, if not the best dubs out there . I think that Steve Blumes role as Spike Spiegel is his best.

Characters: 8 
It's not like you really get a lot of time spent on building up the characters, but somehow on the way you pick up pieces about Spike, Faye, Jet and Ed. As the series progresses you get some parts of there back-stories, but you don't get all of it. Well at least I thought that there could of been more back-stories for them. But I have to admit that it helped for extra realism that you don't know all about these characters from the start even to the end there are a lot mystery around them.

As for other characters they show up and disappear very soon except Vicous the villain ( his name sounds like a villain already)  who I didn't like, because a real villain needs to have a fucking good reason to be a villain, but all I got from him is that he has bad past with Spike, which really doesn't explain a lot, because we don't know much about Spikes past except for few flashbacks.

Enjoyment: 9
I enjoyed this anime a lot. Never did I get bored watching it and most of the time I was stuck to screen sitting on the edge of my seat. But I have to say that once the episode was done I wasn't that reluctant to go watch the next episode, because there wasn't an overarching plot that would connect from one episode to the next.

Overall: 9
The best part about Cowboy Bebop was the music and animation. The production value for this anime was very high even for nowadays standards. I have to say that I didn't like the story that much because I found it cliche a bit and the characters even though cool and pretty much realistic they didn't really relate to me. But also I must admit that this anime has something that you really can't categorize and that is style. And that style just makes all those bad things I said about it almost meaningless.

I would recommend this anime to every anime fan and even to people that haven't seen any anime, because it has a lot of good qualities that could interest non-anime people into watching it. As for those people who care more about the stories morals and what it has to tell you about everything I would not advise you to jump in watching this anime with high expectations, because Cowboy Bebop is more about style over matter.
        

Helpful


read more
