            
    These are just my vague thoughts about the show, not particularly organized or backed up with specific details from the show itself.  Probably not the best way to write a review, but I am basically just here to praise the show and state what I liked :]

Amazing series.  Despite the fact it's episodic, you can see a connected story line through the characters and the way they and their relationships develop. 

I truly loved every character on the Bebop-- they all filled different roles without seeming forced.  They all had pasts that affected them even if we don't ever fully learn what

          
        their past is.  Character relationships and growth are what I look for in a series, and this one nailed it.  Also, this series has Edward!  Can anybody NOT love her?  I don't think so.

Cowboy Bebop had a really nice mix of humor, seriousness, darkness, and suspense.  The jokes and the banter between the characters always felt genuine and made me smile.  The show really knew how to have silly moments while still remaining mature.

I am not a big fan of tons of action and gun fights or space-themed things.  But this series made me like it.  It made it believable--  the story's universe was built so well that everything felt real while watching it.

The show can be appreciated for the individual episodes as well as the overall themes, the biggest of which is whether or not your past makes you who you are.  An over-done theme, perhaps, but Bebop's take on it was really well done because you could see it from so many points of view.

I'm not one to normally notice soundtracks because I am so focused on the story and the visuals, but Cowboy Bebop's soundtrack definitely stuck out to me.  I loved it.  The music always helped improve the scenes and the mood and was never a distraction.

The art is unique and beautiful in its own way, especially from being nearly 15 years old now.

In the end, I would recommend this series to anyone and everyone.  It started off slow for me but when I took the time and patience to appreciate it, I couldn't turn it off.  I definitely think there's a lot of rewatch value in the series as well, and I can't wait to show it to more people.
        

Helpful


read more
