        
    Overview:
As one of the most famous anime of the 1990's, "Cowboy Bebop" is a show that needs no introduction. With that in mind, there is almost no need to write this review other than to state my own personal opinion. With its smooth, detailed animation, highly unique music style, awesome action scenes, flawless voice acting and quirky yet lovable characters, "Cowboy Bebop" is a brilliant crime fiction/space western series that deservedly became an instant classic.

Story & World (8.5/10):
The series takes place in the year 2071, roughly sixty years after an accident with a hyperspace gateway made the Earth uninhabitable. Because of this incident, humanity has

          
        colonized most of the rocky planets and moons of the Solar System. Amid a rising crime rate, the Inter Solar System Police (ISSP) set up a legalized contract system, in which registered bounty hunters (also referred to as "Cowboys") chase criminals and bring them in alive in return for a reward. The crew of the titular spaceship Bebop are a group of such bounty hunters. Originally, the crew consists only of our main character, Spike Spiegel and his partner Jet Black, but with the first nine episodes, three new members join the crew. The series has a largely episodic nature that follows this group of misfits hunting down criminals while also covering their day-to-day lives.

One thing you'll notice is that the crew hardly ever get the bounties, often screwing things up by ultimately killing the person or having something else happen. Unfortunately, as you can guess, this can get a bit repetitive, as you begin to expect that they'll end up risking their lives and get absolutely nothing for their trouble. Now and again, however, the show does see them capturing bounties alive, just to show that they're actually good at what they do. And when I say 'a bit repetitive', I mean 'a bit', as the episodes have a wide variety of genres, including film noir, gothic horror, creature-feature, black comedy, screwball comedy, spy action, tragedy, action, philosophy, science, spirituality, buddy-buddy stories, parody and everything in between. One episode might be extremely funny while the next could be highly bleak or unsettling. 

Largely, however, the show doesn't really have a story. While there is two story arcs, they only really come in when needed and often go several episodes without being touched upon. I felt that Spike's arc, which focuses on his past as a criminal, was quite underdeveloped as a lot of things aren't really made clear. Thankfully, I can say that the ending of the series as a whole is absolutely fantastic.

Art & Animation (9/10):
"Cowboy Bebop"'s animation is extremely smooth. While there are better-looking anime out there, the fights are brilliantly choreographed and, for a hand-drawn series, the characters and environments are all incredibly detailed, with everyone and everything having a distinct appearance. All of this creates a fantastic-looking anime that still holds up even to this day. Considering the show first aired in the late 90s, that is quite an accomplishment.

Sound & Dialogue (10/10):
My God, the music is absolutely fantastic! It is a very unique style that really fits the tone of the series. I cannot think of a single other anime that uses jazz music, and it's used to full effect here. There is only one opening and one ending theme ('Tank!' and 'The Real Folk Blues', respectively) but they are both two of the best themes for an anime I have ever seen. The voice acting is just as good, with the English dub being known for one-upping the Japanese original. I especially like Steven Blum and Wendee Lee's performances as Spike and Faye, respectively. The former has a really cool voice which really fits Spike's laid-back personality and the latter pulls off Faye's feminine charming perfectly. The script is great as well, largely thanks to Spike's brilliant snarky quips.

Characters (9/10):
The Bebop crew can be summed up as follows- the grumpy, sarcastic guy (Spike), the femme fatale (Faye), the wise mentor (Jet), the dog (Ein) and the kid (Ed, who is a girl, btw). However, there is far, far more to them than just that. Spike is a former criminal haunted by the lost of a loved one, Faye is an amnesiac con artist, Jet is a former cop with a robot arm and acts as Spike's foil, Ein is a lab experiment to create a very intelligent dog and Ed is an expert hacker with a... very odd thought pattern.

All of the Bebop crew have their moments in the sun, with various episodes focusing on a specific member. Spike's past catches up to him and he forced to face off against his former best friend-turned-enemy Vicious (more on him later), Faye attempts to recover her lost memory and Jet is forced to deal with various issues from his past as a cop. Ed and Ein don't get as much focus as the core trio, and the episodes that focus on them tend to be very comical.

All of the Bebop crew are lovable in their own ways, but Spike and Faye are by far the most developed. Ed and Ein remain pretty much the same throughout the entire series and while Jet goes through several instances of cleaning up his own past, it doesn't really affect his outlook and lifestyle, with him still being the same gruff but gentle giant. Spike and Faye, on the other hand, are the focus of the major story arcs of the series, with Spike looking for his lost love and settling his score with Vicious and Faye attempting to recover her memory and find her place in the universe. While they remain rather grumpy and unpleasant even to the end, they do definitely care for each other and their shipmates. Plus, they (along with Jet) can more than hold their own in a fight.

This brings us to the main villain, Vicious, a ruthless crime lord who most certainly lives up to his name, as he is notorious for betraying anybody even remotely close to him. He also has legendary skill with a katana, to the point that he manages to make a sword vs. gun fight between him and Spike seem fair, albeit with a bit of cheating on his part. He appears in a total of five episodes and is the only recurring antagonist in the series. That said, some other villains do leave lasting impression even though they only appear in one episode. That is very difficult to do. 

Enjoyment (9.5/10):
Due to the variety in the episodes, you are unlikely to ever be bored while watching "Cowboy Bebop". Even if you aren't a big fan of anime, you can still really enjoy this series due to it being largely Western-styled. Some of the episodes, however, especially the last four, are very unsettling and may put off some people. Others, on the other hand, are incredibly funny, so essentially there's something here for everyone.

Overall:
The fact that "Cowboy Bebop" is just as popular today as it was when it first aired nearly twenty years ago easily cements its status as a timeless classic, and, having watched it myself, I can easily see why. Fluid animation, awesome music and memorable characters make this one of my favourite anime thus far. If, by any chance, you haven't watched this series, I would recommend you do so as soon as possible.

Score:
8.5+9+10+9.5+9=46/50=9.2/10
        

Helpful


read more
