       
    This anime is an icon and an inspiration.

The anime is revealed in episodes, with each episode having its own story with occasional flash backs (for character development) in between. It is simple and easy to understand. Each episode is so perfect that it is able to provide some brief history about the events that occurred as well as cover the current happenings. The episodes also have nice combination of some light heartened and emotional moods. The endings are quite satisfying (in general manner).

The art is bit dull but it fits in showcasing the anime as western style anime. Characters are well defined with each having

          
        its own unique features which match their personality. The background details like vehicles, planets and space stations across the anime do not diminish in quality.
The animation is very fluid given it is a decade old and no digital tech was not used.

Voice acting is wonderfully performed as it properly matched with the personality of characters and the emotions they show. The music in the anime involves jazz, blues, classic rock which gives awesome emotional detail to given situations. The opening theme TANK is one of the main features of the anime. It gives an idea of what expect in the anime. And just listening it creates eagerness for the show.

Each character in this anime is at height of cool in their respective areas (personality wise) thus making them memorable. Spike is a bounty hunter, martial arts specialist and awesome pilot. Jet, earlier a cop and now head of the bebop crew, he is somewhat like guiding figure for others. Faye is an independent, stylish woman with a bad habit of gambling. Edward is a genius child from earth whose presence create situation light hearten. Their way of working out the circumstances together given their diverse backgrounds is most interesting to watch. Characters also have to face their past which shows how they react to situations which are sensitive to them. And they do it quite well.

Cowboy bebop is truly amazing amine with all the right mix of characters, story, and animation thus being among the best anime of all time. I thoroughly enjoyed this anime.


Helpful


read more
