      
    I made a heavy edited video review of Mayoiga with comedic parody elements, which I spend a lot of time and effort on:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-dKqbGyv5k&list=FLy_MSrnWbF86dVyi7JZj-zw
But if you prefer readinghere you go:

Lost Village, or Mayoiga is about what would happen, if you put 30 people from Tumblr on a deserted island and watch them argue about wether link should have a vagina or not, instead of finding food, or a way out and then watch them slowly die, because of their mental disorderswoooow, everybody calm down.

30 people, men and woman, kids and adults, go on a bus tour, promised to get them to a secret village, that no

          
        one knows about. Not even popos can get there. Every person has their non sensical reasons for leaving home such as, my onii-chan doesnt like me and doesnt suck my niples every night and oh no, the 8th season of my little pony has ended and I have nothing to do. Everyone is basically like, if you would take the commenters of any anime list websites. (they even introduce themselves by the internet names) You got the annoying nya, nya fuck me in the neko guy, the loli everyone will make rule 34 of and so on

Lost village actually starts of pretty decent. Despite not knowing much about the characters, which you dont care about, because you assume they will all die by the end the show anyway, it focuses more on building mystery. What does this place look like and what is it all about? What are those character going to find at the end of the road and what will happen to them? Does this village even exist? Sadly, nothing ever goes anywhere. Oh look, this guy is going to get stung in the ass by this giant bee. Just kidding, absolutely nothing happens. For the most part, you are going to watch these idiots argue among themselves, trying to decide who has the smallest dick, while some hysterical Jersey shore reject is panicking about her broken nail or something.

Everyone comes of so stupid and there was not a single likeable character. Of course you cant expect them to give personality to all 30 individuals. But at least one acceptable character? Is that too much? They of course TRY to flesh out certain characters, as their try to face of their fears and being chased by bad CGI, resembling their traumas from the past, but their backstories are the most ridiculous shit Ive ever seen.

Also theres a girl named Lovepon. Ohhhhh shes a special little coconut. By the true Mayoiga fashion of course, they flushed her personality down the toilet, but they did bother to make her at least one dimensional. See, she has a fetish for execution and wont shut up about it. Like ok, its fine when she says it the first couple of times, but then she proceeds to say it again, and again, execution, executionyes please, end my life!

Aside from the CGI abominations, I actually like the art style and how some of the characters were designed. Some looked very similar and I couldnt tell them apart, although that might also be due to poor characters But I thought a few of them actually looked pretty. I cant comment too much on the animation, as it didnt strike me as anything too special, so its all right. Also, theres isnt much to say about the soundtrack, because nothing was too memorable, but what I can comment on is the opening song. I dont know if its just me but besides me thinking that the song is uninspired and boring and a must skip in each viewing and thats just my personal taste, I dont mind if you like the song. I found the singing in the opening to be bad. Poor performance.

As you might have noticed, I dont recommend watching this show. You might be fooled for half of the show, into thinking that this might turn out ok, like I was, but trust me, it goes nowhere. I was looking forward to watching all these unlikeable characters die, I wouldnt usually say this stuff without warning, but I really think I might save you the time. No one actually dies in the entire span of 12 episodes! So what youre left with, is a cast of 30 dipshits with no personality and a bad conclusion. I feel bad for ripping on this show so badly, because people put a lot of effort into animating this, but I cant find it in me to like it. Thats all Im going to say about it. Im done. Please stay away from this shit and go watch better anime, like Ben 10 or something.

Helpful


read more
