      
    As I sit down to write this review, I clutch a cup of coffee with a shaking left hand and grope blindly for some painkillers with the right one

And no, it's not because this show has been so amazing it has left me in a state of short-circuited, orgasmic bliss. Oh, no. It's because this show has been such absolute, raw, unfiltered shaite I feel the need to repeatedly clock a hammer over my little toe until the bone is all splinters as punishment for being masochistic enough to actually soldier through the entirety of it.

Thus, with a deep-rooted sigh, allow me to get down

          
        to it and tell you why this thing sucked donkey balls.

Mayoiga is a twelve-episode anime produced by Diomeda, written by Mari Okada (and some two other dudes under her supervision) and directed by Tsutomu Mizushima. Both people who can actually be quite decent at their respective jobs, but I suppose a lot of booze and / or metaphysical prostitution (Money, dear boy!) was involved, otherwise I can't fathom how anyone thought this thing was a good idea. Sure, the concept itself has potential, but the execution of it...not so much. Without being too spoilerific:


STORY & CHARACTERS [ 1 / 10 ]

The premise: thirty people (generously described as being eccentric, which couldn't be a bigger lie even if Donald Trump were to head the marketing team  in actuality a bunch of social rejects running away from their problems  Freudian excuses abound!) are gathered on a bus whose destination is a semi-mythical, urban-legend-status village, where dark things await them. Like I said, it has potential, provided it is executed well; such a setting gives leeway for a lot of contemplation on the nature of humanity, perhaps a la Lord of the Flies or Robinson Crusoe. 

There's one tiny problem, you see. It wasn't executed well. 
By god, it wasn't executed well at all.

For a premise of this type to work, you need good characters, because they are responsible for driving everything and making you care. Unfortunately for Mayoiga, this is not the case. The characters are constructed as plot devices to forcefully hammer down the story as desired by the creators, regardless of whether or not their actions make sense, and on top of that (or perhaps as a result of it) I couldn't care less about any of them even if I tried. Hell, I couldn't care less even if somebody paid me.

I could forgive the secondary characters being flat and underdeveloped  there is only so much you can do with such a short run, after all  but its' primary characters are just as plain. Since they all act in whatever way happens to suit the plot best, so there isn't much characterization to speak of, aside from the aforementioned Freudian excuses they are given for their behavior; they are simple archetypes, and crudely drawn ones at that. You have the Dark and Troubled Past pair of male protagonists, the zany girl who is really there more to be the love interest and get in trouble as a way to drive the story forwards than anything, the adult characters with a hidden motive, and the loads and loads of characters you forget about almost as soon as they've passed by on the screen. 

There is not an ounce or trace of credibility to anything, and that's the root and bulk of the problem. Everything the characters do and say comes across as forced, and the plot they are made to carry out is one that is flimsy, predictable, and worst of all, ultimately uninteresting. 


ART [ 5 / 10 ]

While not overly awkward or outright bad, it's simply plain. The character designs and backgrounds are as generic as everything else, and there is not even one shot that stands out in your memory.


SOUND [ 5 / 10 ]

Honestly I can't remember much about the sound, such as the background music  I can't even remember if there was any. I ended up skipping the opening and ending songs. As far as voice acting goes (I watched this with subs), it was as plain and soulless (and in some cases annoying) as the character the voice belonged to.


ENJOYMENT [ 1 / 10 ]

All I got out of this was a headache and an urge to write Hayao Miyazaki a letter and tell him that he was right when he said anime was a mistake. If everything I've said so far hasn't tipped you off just yet  I thoroughly disliked this. And it didn't even manage to make me dislike it in a passionate way; it has only managed to make me...apathetic.


OVERALL [ 2 / 10 ]

I reserve such low ratings for series that have truly and deeply wasted my time. The only reason I did watch all of this was out of a personal sense of pride, as I refuse to drop something once I've started it. Had I been anyone else, I would have backed out around the midpoint of the first episode; you can actually notice how cringe-worthy this show promises to be within the first fifteen minutes, and that promise is the only thing Mayoiga will not disappoint you on.

Do yourself a favor and spare your brain from this mess.
        

Helpful


read more
