       
    This is a hard one to write about without giving spoilers so expect them later on in the review (don't worry I'll tell you when they are coming). The reason it is so hard not to write spoilers when reviewing Mayoiga is that the main reason I like this anime so much is that it is awesomely weird and if I explain anything of significance about it I will be spoiling the fun of experiencing this weirdness 'cold'. Weirdness is mainly appealing because it shocks you. It isn't as fun when the weirdness is explained away right? So watch it if you like to be

          
        surprised by an anime...and now onto the

SPOLIERS...You still don't know if you want to watch it? Well let me try and sell you on it, this anime had an elephant sized silicon boob monster...See I told you this was an awesome anime. Argument over. The end. 







Ahem, ok but come on what is not to like about an elephant sized silicon boob monster? Anyway apart from that weirdness the anime has a huge cast of 30 plus characters most of who introduce themselves and list their reason for being there no matter how inane or crazy in the first episode. I watched this episode without knowing anything about it and at first was diligently paying close attention, by the tenth person I was getting a bit lost wondering who had said what and if any of it was vitally important and by the 20th or so I was laughing and letting the whole thing wash over me. I had left my eidetic memory in my other pants that day so yeah keeping track of what everyone had said and their motivations was a little impossible. 

The whole anime is filled with tropes and with completely illogical actions by the characters. So yeah it is like pretty much every other anime...but seriously Mayoiga takes it to a whole other level and makes it funny. These characters are super pumped about uncovering a witch then forget about it completely and go to sleep. They lock up people then just leave them there to rot and forget about them. There is a character who calls herself Love-pon who wants to kill anyone and everyone and will scream at the top of her lungs to "execute" anyone who looks at her funny at roughly 5 second intervals whenever she is on screen.

I can understand the confusion that occurs when discussing this anime. The volatile nature of the scores mostly seem to be either very low or very high with few in between. Is this thing a misunderstood masterpiece or a steaming pile? Probably the first thing but not sure...anyway it was extremely entertaining. I can't even say that it was so bad it was good because there is some story here, it is not a complete farce (well mostly it is but there is a story in there which is actually kind of heartfelt and sweet). 

So uh in summary this is a Lord of the Flies with coolly weird monster ghost things that has a warm and fuzzy story (eventually) that made me laugh a lot and was quite clever and subtle in places (not the boob monster part) and was completely stupid (still not the boob monster part) in other places. I enjoyed the roller coaster ride.


Helpful


read more
