      
    This anime is really good and you should give it a try!
I really love this anime. The story, characters and OP were really good.

Should you watch this anime?
Do you like: non realistic thoughts, crazy characters, shipping characters and a weird story?
Yes? Then this is the anime for you!
No? Neither do I, but I really loved it.

Story: 9/10
This story was weird, but enjoyable. after the first episode my was overflowing with questions which weren't FULLY answered. it had a great start, but the ending will probably disappoint you. The ending is really bad, because the pacing was off and unrealistic.
Don't get me wrong the story was

          
        really good and the cliffhangers were topnotch. this is one of those anime that you'll watch in 1 night. 

Art: 8/10
It had a detailed background, characters were well drawn this is all.

Sound: 8/10
The voice actors did a really really good job. The opening was catchy and I completely love it. No OST's that were really good.

Character: 6/10

This is the main problem of this anime. It had 30 characters some only had 20 lines in 12 episodes.
The characters think unrealistic. Everyone has their own mental problem while most of them didn't make any sense. No character development whatsoever which was expected. This show has rather clich characters.
Lovepun was a reincarnation of Yuno Gasai without loving the MC.
Masaki was the crybaby
Mitsumune was the generic nice MC;
A fat detective who plays with her fat.

Enjoyment 8/10

I really enjoyed this anime. Definitely my second or third favorite of spring.
The story was good. Writing was okay. I get why people dislike this anime.

Pros:                                                      Cons
Good story                                        Bad ending                                                      
Interesting mystery                         Characters are clich
Detailed art                                     some questions are left unanswered 
Cliffhangers were really good                                            

Helpful


read more
