      
    Remember when "Lost" (American Live Action Series) became an omelette of horrible ideas? "Bus Show" creators must have thought that was good writing and made a show out of it.

*Spoiler Alert*

The cast is one of many assaults on one's sanity. The characters as I recall are listed like this: Harem Gay, Harem Gay's Best Friend, Love Interest (sometimes Bow Girl), Pikachu, Uzi Chick, Military Guy, Pirate Jack, Other Jack, Larry (refer to Phoenix Wright), Execute Girl, Soy Latte (actual name), Small Beard, and Black Dude. There are a ton of other people, but no one cares. This show damned itself by having such a large

          
        cast in such a small show. There were attempts to make us relate to and like this enormous cast. Unfortunately, you cannot have character development or character-viewer relations built between so many people as quickly as they tried to make this happen. They failed at both jobs. 

How are all these interesting people together in the same place? They took the bus to a village where they wanted to make a commune of dysfunctional kids. This village is something something Nanaki something something ghosts from your past something something giant tit. Yes, a literal giant tit haunted Military Guy. He is not the only guy with a stupid background and a stupid spirit/inner demon. Our resident hard-ass Small Beard is terrified of Thomas the Tank Engine with googly eyes because he was laughed during work because his failed plans. The giant penguin and Horde mount are debatably the most legitimate inner fears. The sheer amount of stupid ideas made me feel like a brain surgeon was giving me a noogie with grip tape. It hurts. 

The only hope for the show after episode 2/3 was to go full slasher flick. Cheesy slasher flicks are easy to execute and no one expects a good twist at the end. Instead Black Dude isn't actually dead. He was talking to a guy he called God who was a researcher on the village because he was interested in bullshit. He could have studied manure and accomplish more than what he did. 

In the very end after everyone made peace with their inner demons and after one of the kids have to say that it is some random chick that was the bad guy all along, because they didn't specify that well enough, they sang a song called the Unlucky Hippopotamus. That is what every unfortunate viewer of the show is. An Unlucky Hippopotamus. Congrats.

Helpful


read more
