      
    1. THE SMALLER PART WITH THE THEORY

The first episode of Mayoiga contains horror, satire, mystery, comedy, romance, drama, surrealist cinematography, and - most importantly - it's also a Musical. Thus, it's already in a greater sphere of things than La Dolce Vita by Federico Fellini - which hits all of those spots somewhere except the horror element (although arguably La Dolce Vita is an existential horror) and the mystery element.

Once you realize that the team who was behind this Anime project is working in a sphere higher than Federico Fellini, that's when you realize what level of genius the work is.

La Dolce Vita worked on

          
        a few symbolic levels. Some even thought that it's structure was based on Dante's Inferno. Thus, Mayoiga goes even further to work on even more symbolic levels.

Things that Mayoiga has symbolically commented upon:

The Trump Elections
The Moral Decay of Japanese Society
The Aging Population (it's an even greater critique of the perils of being old than Yasujiro Ozu's Tokyo Story, as seen in its brilliant first episode)
The Postmodern Condition & the Stand-Alone Complex
Meta-commentary on the Horror genre itself
The Dangers of Celebrity Culture
The Hypocrisy of Religion
The Complicated Politics of Gender, Feminism, and Masculinity
The Immorality and Decay of the Health Sciences, and, especially Plastic Surgery
The Rise of Radicalism and Militarism in any Movement
The Demarcation between Psychology and Neuroscience
White-Knight complexes in Japanese Anime

For such a miraculous work to be able to touch on numerous topics so well and still hold its ground puts it in the same realm, also, as Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange - which uses caricatures to smartly attack the problem of Youth Violence and Political Control.

I am convinced, though, that the intellectual foundation at the bottom of Mayoiga comes from a small essay by philosopher David Stove entitled What is Wrong with Our Thoughts?  where he delivers this critique of the history of thought and philosophy:

Any student of the history of thought is soon able to say, with Macbeth, 'I have supp'd full with horrors.' To read a book of magic, say, or astrology, is horrible, because the spectacle of steady and systematic irrationality induces depression and nausea. Yet the most horrible book, in this way, that I have ever read, does not come from the underworld of thought. On the contrary, it comes from the dizziest heights of contemporary academic respectability.

This comes after a long list listing out 40 philosophical interpretations of the number 3 that he deems completely ridiculous. 

2. THE LARGER PART WITH THE EVIDENCE

Mayoiga  very brilliantly  acts upon the philosophical doctrine of David Stove and attempts to construct a nosology of thought as to how conversation and thinking can go wrong within society. That is its core premise, whereby all of the other symbolic levels are placed upon. It is an incredible display of human weakness and the foibles of human nature. 

Nowhere is this clearer when the characters of the village are crowding around a battered Masaki who may or may not have been assaulted by another character. This scene touches on many things, such as how quick the characters are to shame her, and how psychopathic the radicalists calling for the most extreme measures (in this case, represented by Lovepon) sound like  and most importantly, how ineffectual and unconvincing Mitsumune is when he steps up to protect her  simply because we know that the bottom-line of his personality is that hes weak towards women  while the other characters have valid pragmatic concerns in questioning her to understand the full scope of the situation. This entire display is a great critique of the intricate web that arises from what we call Social Justice within society  and the general foibles of the Left overall.

Indeed, Mitsumune as a protagonist character is one of the slyest choices ever taken in the history of fictional characters as a whole. His neediness reflects the neediness of people within society who jump into causes to fill a void in themselves  no matter how flawed or just the cause is. And, in the end, if the cause is just, they do damage to the cause through their headstrong attachment to it at the cost of everything else. And by placing him up against the other examples of general psychopathy, it shows how much all of them are cut from the same cloth.

Other great touches includes showing that  in the end  we care little for the tragedies of the mentally-ill and disenfranchised if theyre hysterical  EVEN THOUGH we understand that theyre hysterical because of their mental illness or their disenfranchised history. This is done when Mayoiga paints the two most radical caricatures (a psychopath and a military gun-nut) as characters with the most tragic backstories  and then juxtaposes these against two other characters with otherwise more blatantly ridiculous and less tragic backstories. 

How many Anime would link up a tragic backstory of that standard with a person whos actually psychopathic? Even in Angel Beats and Charlotte, the people with the most depressing and abusive backstories dont turn psychopathic  as they would actually do in real society. In fact, the cinematography is so apt here. Their backstories feel overbearing because this is how the characters themselves see the situation. This is how a real psychopath would try to tell you his or her life story to net sympathy points  recounting the worst moments in the most oozingly tragic manner. Furthermore, the backstory of the failed JSDF applicant has this great shot oozing with sentimentality where hes sitting downcast just across from a row of cherry-blossom trees  petals blowing in the breeze. Yet, weve already seen the two other backstories, and we know that this is really nothing in comparison to those other two  but he believes it to be so. 

Mayoiga has just used the normal trope of Anime backstories for a higher purpose  it has given a great critique of how much we DO NOT CARE about the histories of psychopaths and would really just wish them to stop with their hysteria  despite us knowing that their personal tragedy has contributed so greatly to their situation. Secondly, it has shown us how people who have caused their own personal tragedy of their own actions (the second two displayed in that episode) view themselves in the same light as people who have their tragedies inflicted on them by others (the first two).

Lets not even talk about how Mayoiga succinctly displays its cynical Machiavellian view of human discourse  that outright hysteria or manipulation are the only things that can drive a human conversation to proper places  due to peoples propensity to get sidetracked by distractions in order to escape the real issue. We laugh at it because of how caricatured the conversations are  yet, deep down, we know that a more subtle version of it gets played everyday in the political arena. You can easily parallax inane discussions about names like Jack and Judgeness  with contemporary going-ons where people do nothing but talk about toilets despite the fact that theres a lot more insidious things to talk about regarding the North Carolina Bill (http://www.ncjustice.org/?q=18-questions-18-answers-real-facts-behind-house-bill-2)

Its a sad thing, though, that the brilliant intellectual commentary of the first few episodes also has to be balanced out later with its mystery elements. Thus, I cannot in full comfort give Mayoiga a score of 10/10.

Despite that  I can be assured that Mayoiga has plenty of moments that strike it as one of the greatest avant-garde literary animes in the entire history of anime. Furthermore, I will say that the ending contains one of the most thematically satisfying resolutions in the entire history of anime. 

(Now that I have commented on the ending, something mystical has happened to this essay. It has crossed the realm of preview into review. Such a strangeness of forces has congregated into that single letter p.)

As Dostoyevsky once commented on the satirical writer Gogol: We all come out of Gogols Overcoat. Thus, similarly, I say  we all come out of Nanaki Village.



Helpful


read more
