      
    Well...I already reviewed one of the Spring Anime Bombs might as well review the other.

Hello People I am Josh and today I am reviewing the anime Mayoiga (Lost Village) brought to us by Diomedia who....I am definently not familiar with at all....Let's jump into it.

Story- The story is brought to us by the same man responsible for Another, a decent to good horror anime (fuck the last episode though). Because of that people immediately went into to this anime thinking there would be some horrifying things and blood being spilled everywhere. But I am here to tell you that that is wrong. It is not

          
        a horror mystery anime. It is a Psycholgical Surreal...Comedy.

The story sounds good on paper. The story being about 30 people going to a lost village to 'start over' in life for a variety of reasons. But when they get to the village strange things start to happen and they will have to face there Nanaki or Psycholgical scars. Going by that alone people might of thought it might be horror but it is really just a psychological surreal comedy. First 3-4 episodes are okay for the most part but then it goes down hill from there especially with the last episode having a stupid anti-climatic ending. Won't spoil that though.

Art- The art is good, characters designs are fine. But then there are the inner monsters of these people....dear god. The CGI used in this anime is just....Wow. Wow! I swear I laughed my ass off every time one of these monsters appear just because of how stupid they looked or how they moved. This is what makes the show a comedy for the most part. The way these CGI monsters look will make you laugh your ass off. I swear I almost thought the people responsible for the CGI in Skeltar Heaven and the Guy who made Utsu Musume Sayuri were paid to do it (For all I know they could have somehow been involved.) 

Sound- The sound oaky to me but it fits the anime well and the voice actors are good. I got no major complaints with this one.

Characters- This anime has way to many characters. 30 characters in a 12 episode show will not work the main reason being half to about the majority of the characters will be pushed to the side. I did not like one single character in this anime. Not the MC, not the love interest, Mr. Driver (Dude seriously didn't get a name. He is just called Driver....Yet they can give some of these characters funny names.) The Lion girl interested me a little but I didn't care for her in the end. To there credit they do atleast develop the MC, Hayato, The Driver and the Love interest but the rest...Ha! They are all just saying "Whatever is this thing called character development. We have never heard of it."

Enjoyment- It was pretty average. The only thing mainly keeping this score average was the laughable CGI and how I laughed my ass off every freaking time it came up. Especially with one of the monsters being Thomas the Tank Engines brother who only comes to Sodor when they need to scare some kids.

Overall- People say Big Order was the bad but that was just boring to me. This is just something I have deemed something that I'll go back to if I feel like laughing at crappy CGI monsters. The plot is bad and goes down hill after atleast the first 3-4 episodes, there are way to many characters for an anime this short. A majority if not all the characters are forgettable and they even try to develop some but fail miserably. If you ask me...Go into this as a comedy. Think of it as a comedy. But overall this anime is pretty bad as the genere that it is listed.

That being said, peace people
        

Helpful


read more
