      
    Mayoiga is one of the most indecisive anime for Spring of 2016 for LA and with good reason.

So with the first thing LA would say is that Mayoiga has tons of characters 31 to be exact and the majority of the cast hardly get any development and are more satellite characters to the characters who DO get the focus. For the characters who do get the focus, like Masaki, Mitsumune, Hayato, the bus driver, Love-pon, Valkana, Yura Mikage and Koharun at best gets "character backstory" and some intention of focus. Oddly enough most of the character backstories is almost meaningless to the overall narrative, the

          
        narrative being the Lost Village's mystery of the anime's title namesake.

Mayoiga definitely has that B-movie grade levels of horror and it's even composited like one too and because of it's B grade horror, it gives vibes of beings an unintentional comedy and mindfuck. However once the "mystery" is told about this anime, almost all the amount of tension and "horror" gets thrown out the window to the point of just being too convenient or just really stupid on the characters part, the only times the tensions work is during the annoyingly cut cliffhangers of many of the episodes. The huge cast of characters is really hard to bring depth to the cast and it shows when we get sloppy character backstory just for the "gimmick" to "make sense" and really on speaking of the gimmick it becomes extremely apparent what the gimmick/mystery is, anyways because of it, lots of the characters become mean spirited or just an asshole or stupid or both. The only character LA liked were Lion voiced by ''Hiromi Igarashi'' as she was the only character to both have a backstory and not be an asshole.

Mayoiga's animation done by Diomedea is actually pretty good as from the character designs being crisp and well animated, background work was decent and made the paranoia let alone the paranoia of the main cast even better. However there is some eerie animation used for the *ahem* mystery of Mayoiga using something like CGI but crudely animated, it's unique but weird at best and really LA can give grace to the CGi as on context it works in both animation and plot-wise. Mayoiga's animation if the plot or characters to the people who watched this "sucked" then the animation is at least a bright spark to this anime.

As for voice acting, well LA won't say much due to the large cast of members, the ONLY voice actor LA liked was the psychotic "execution execution" ranting Love-pon voiced by Ai Kakuma, her lunacy vocals helped this anime's unintentional hilarity even better. Even then it felt like Ai Kakuma's psychotic ranting rubbed off on the other characters later on, HAMMINESS ABOUND IN MAYOIGA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. On the other hand the voice acting is as contrasting to Ai Kakuma's, it's dull and lifeless to most of the satellite characters. Voice acting in Mayoiga is either "blithering batshit crazy" or "the voice actor is self-aware of the script and not taking it seriously" and there is no inbetween. 

Mayoiga's ending culminates in...a huge anti-climax, something like a shady therapist session (which is also said word by word by one of the character by the way, self-awareness?...or they just did "just because?") using supernatural means, it's just like they rushed it to no end to the satellite characters but especially the "main cast members" of Mitsumune, Masaki and Hayato and really although the ending "wrapped up" the character plotlines and the "mystery" of the anime, but really LA just couldn't take this ending seriously to the point of making the central focus of this anime into a pitiful joke. WOW.

Mayoiga is a curious case where this anime tries to disguise itself like a B-grade horror but really it's a weird character analysis piece anime really it it it just gets worse from there. Mayoiga isn't meant to be taken seriously and it really does show it pretty quickly. LA said that Mayoiga was an indecisive anime but when Mayoiga really "shows" itself, LA would say two things about it. Mayoiga is a crazy horror parody with Tsutomu Mizushima's directing and is utterly hilariously serious about it. YET, LA will say this is one of the weirdest, horribly tacky anime LA saw in Spring of 2016. Take it if you will if LA is saying this sarcastically or honestly or not.
        

Helpful


read more
