      
    Maiyoga is like school camp trip, cluttered, fun and rife with misconceptions. It's this odd package that blurs the line between serious and nonsensical. At first the mystery will intrigue you but it soon becomes apparent that the main appeal stems from the sheer wackiness caused by the urban legend plaguing hysteria among our addled escapees.     

Characters will often not make sense and for the most part consist of cardboard cutout characters. To describe them all would be pointless, seeing as the very first episode executes this in a jarring introduction segment of which 20+ characters explain why they are leaving

          
        there old lives behind. Execute is something that you will hear often, as Lovepon declares it every opportunity she gets. The sheer amount of characters over a twelve episode series did cause copious amounts of underdevelopment. Characters do grow, well at least a handful do but the plot decides that for them, rather it feeling like a natural progression. This did make the ending more interesting, which felt like what would realistically happen to our not so realistic and often divided cast.  

Makeshift decisions make the outline of the story as factions dispute for the course of action. There could have been more back stabbing and turmoil but for the most part the way the story progressed was entertaining, the same way it is to be an outsider of a feud that continues to grow increasingly imaginative might be. It is hard to take anything too seriously given the reactions, imagery and atmosphere. At times it feels like there's these absurd things that are happening and the characters act nonchalant about it much like the humor in a David Lynch film. Then there are other times where the exact opposite happens enhancing the aforementioned effect. 

Nothing in the art or sound departments where particularly memorable. Character designs were varied and well done with the exception of Mitsumune who had the stereotypical look of a protagonist with the brown hair and small framed combo. The monsters where entertainingly freaky and weird with the seemingly fit usage of CGI. The OST fails at making any source of credible suspense but otherwise fits the tone suitably. VAs give solid performances, special credits go to Lovepon whose outbursts capture the perfect amounts of insanity.  

If you're looking for a well written, thriller with survival horror elements look elsewhere. Maiyoga is a fun albeit brief supernatural mystery that focuses on building conflict rather then tension. It's straight forward message of being able to accept tribulations from your past is perhaps overly simple but one which is worth experiencing if you can accept the bus load of flaws that come with it. 
        

Helpful


read more
