      
    2/10 is actually a rather generous score for an anime so abysmal. If MAL offered negative scores, I may have spitefully given it a -2 rather than a positive one.

I trudged through all twelve episodes, wasting 22 minutes of my life every week hoping that somehow, the plot would actually slowly turn good, and the characters wouldn't be so goddamn obnoxious. Didn't happen. I'm asking God for a refund of those minutes after I die one day.

First off: Why the everloving frick would you have 30 characters in a show that's only twelve episodes?! With so little time to develop anyone as a character, it's

          
        a wonder that they even thought that that was a good idea. Honestly, over 2/3 the cast could've been tossed away and nothing from the show would've changed. It was an unnecessary waste and barely anyone was given decent character development. In so-called horror/mystery shows such as this, it is crucial to have characters that the audience can root for or relate to. No such thing here. By the time episode 2-3 finished  practically everyone watching was hoping that the whole cast would just die. Not to mention, the characters who are presented more often are meh at best and fucking annoying at worst. They're all one-trick ponies who have one defining trait and nothing else explored about them. They have ""backstories"", but those are just another bad attempt at trying to get the viewer to sympathize for them (one was bullied, one tried to get into the military and failed, one did something wrong on a business deal, one was abused by a stepfather, etc.) and though you may feel bad for them a bit, it doesn't change the fact that most of them are useless and annoying characters. There are points where you may think that certain people got character development, and then, BAM! They reverted back to the way they were. \_()_/ 

I'd talk about a story if there actually was one. Every time there's a mystery, there's always a crappy, half-assed explanation, followed by another mystery that is inevitably going to end up with the same crappy half-assed explanation by the next episode. At the series' end, there were still many questions left unanswered. The characters themselves are so annoying that it's actually hard to focus on the story (or on whether the story is actually there or not). 

The art is the best part of the series. It's not too bad.

The OP/ED were nice to listen to, but they're easily skippable. I didn't really pay attention to the sound in the series otherwise.

OVERALL: unless you are fond of subjecting yourself to torture in all sorts of forms, don't watch this show. it's a waste of your time. 
        

Helpful


read more
