      
    I don't often watch series which end up giving me a final impression which is miles apart from the initial one. Mayoiga,  however, did just that. To say it caught me by surprise could well be an understatement. 

[STORY: 7/10]

Before this series aired, there were lots of expectations piling on it. No surprise there, as its director is very same one who gave us Another, Blood-C and Shirobako, while the script supervisor boasted works such as AnoHana and G-Tekketsu. 

It was probably due to that heap of expectations, which was why most people were left disappointed at the first few episodes. This series started

          
        off pretty slow and, if I were to put it bluntly, there was literally no clue at the start as to what this series would actually exactly be about. But alas, that was to be its success. First, they left us confused and frustrated at the excessive conversations among the horde of characters and abrupt cliffhangers at the end of each episode. But then they threw at us unexpected revelations and some (attempted) plot twists which we never thought would happen because we had all concluded beforehand that this would be a 'bad series'.

Amidst the eerie cloud of mystery and attempted horror they planted in the course of the series, it served to and did teach us a very simple principle of everyday life. What this principle is, I'll leave you to find out for yourself!

[ART: 7/10]

Not much qualms on this aspect. 

Brought to us by a rather experienced studio in Diomedea, the art would've been expected to be rather decent, which was what it is. There was no excessive use of scenery visuals, and the character designs were good enough to make them look cool or cute if they need to be. 

[SOUND: 7/10]

OP was upbeat and catchy, ED was calm and soothing... Just what you'd need at the beginning and end of a suspense/mystery series, don't you? Apart from that, there is not much in the soundtrack, with the background music being mostly the same and consistent throughout. 

[CHARACTERS: 6/10]

This is where it's tough to actually give an accurate score. 

Giving a small group of characters some sort of character development within a one-cour (11-13 episodes) series is hard. This is evident in most harems, where the girls usually get their own arcs consisting of a few episodes at most. Now, if the aforementioned is difficult enough, just think about how you're going to give character development to 30 characters within that same amount of time. Simply mission impossible. 

However, I'm going to give a fair bit of credit to Mayoiga for this because sure it was hard, but they gave it their best shot. Some of the characters had backstories revealed, which did allow us to understand why they were there in the first place and the reason for their behaviors. The happenings were rushed, but good enough to make me forgive them for it. In other words, they did all they could to give the characters some sort of development, most apparently seen in the main guy (Mitsumune). 

I actually kinda started off hating every single character in the series, but as I watched on my hate for them decreased. 

[ENJOYMENT: 7/10]

Not thoroughly enjoyed, but it kept my eyes glued to the screen, particularly towards the end of the series. Conversations between characters can be pretty funny and enjoyable to watch at times, while the intrigue and mysteriousness of the series made me want to know more and find out what the living hell was actually going on. Props to the series for being able to make me do that. 

[OVERALL: 7/10]

Well, what more can I say? The series looked good before it aired, looked bad after it aired for a few weeks, but ended up being a rather decent anime I actually didn't regret spending time on. The brilliance of this series served as a grim reminder to me never to judge a book by its cover. 

To all those who are even thinking about starting this, I suggest you ignore all the negative reviews and try it for yourself. And if you do try it, remember to try your best not to drop the series halfway. Because you never know, you might just grow to like it, like me. 
        

Helpful


read more
