      
    	Oh what wasted potential on a show that seemed so promising. It had an interesting premise, it had the director, but this series just fell apart from the first episode. I thought it would be promising but oh how wrong could I be. This series just gives you many what the hell moments and stuff like why the heck would this happen and also jumps into the Anime Garden of Sinners. I feel like if this series was around 25 episodes, given a Fate/Zero type of character development, and had more time to develop the overall story, it would have been way more enjoyable. 

Story:

          
        1/10

	Mayoigas story is wasted potential everywhere. The basic plot is really a bunch of people on a bus go to a lost village since they want to escape their horrible reality. They go to a village that seems that it was abandoned not too long ago and try to live there. Little do they know that monsters are in the forest outside of the village. Thats basically the plot of this series and boy does it really shit on the plot a lot. First of all, this anime literally explains next to nothing.  There are so many plot holes and wtf moments that leave so many questions unanswered that its even worse than SAO in that respect and practically every single other anime out there. Hell, even Chaos Dragon has less plot holes than this. It really deteriorates the viewing experience and the overall feel and investment you have into the story. The ending of this story is also very abrupt and not an ending that I would like. 

Art: 6/10

	Okay so Mayoigas art isnt that bad except for the CGI monsters at some points. There really isnt too much to talk about the art other than it looks decent and looks like something from 2015 and 2016. The CG looks like absolute shit sometimes, and is so ugly. 

Sound: 6/10

	The sound is okay. It heightens the tone sometimes but also just feels out of place in others.  The Op is a good op for once but the Ed is something that I dont really like too much. Overall, the sound is okay, its at least better than some anime in this season. 

Characters: 1/10

	The characters are the worst part of this series. I immediately realized that the series cast was doomed to fail since there are so many characters. There must have been at least 20 or something on the bus and it would have been impossible to develop all the characters thoroughly. I dont even remember half the characters names. The show literally just forgets about pretty much all the characters halfway through and most of them dont get any development at all. Only a select few get some development and they are the characters you hate. This series doesnt know how to develop characters properly and has such a large cast of characters that even if it tried, it couldnt develop them in the time frame given. All the characters are easily forgettable and development would have been better if the story had a sort of Fate/Zero type of development where every character at least gets some development. 

Enjoyment: 1/10

	I really hated watching this series. It was the story and poor characters that really dragged my enjoyment. The sound and animation sort of brought up my enjoyment but it was not enough to bring my enjoyment of this show from a 1 to a 2. Its bad, cringe-worthy, and not worth watching at all. The fact that this show could have just been so much better really brought down my enjoyment too. 

Overall: 2/10

	This show is bad. Its has bad story, characters, and is un-enjoyable overall. It also has decent animation and sound but that cant save this show. It had so much potential, all wasted in my opinion. You should never watch this show at all. Its one of the worst shows of this season and should not be watched at all. The only reason you would watch this is because you want to watch something made by the director of Another and thats about it. 

Helpful


read more
