      
    Hey, are you looking for a well made mystery anime that boasts a suspenseful plot with intriguing characters? Then DON'T watch Mayoiga! This show failed miserably to be the good mystery anime that it tried so hard to be. Mayoiga got consistently worse and more agrivating to watch as each episode passed by. In fact, it almost drove me to take a bus tour to an abandoned town divode of life and technology myself just so that I wouldn't have to watch this disgrace on my PC every week.

Plot: 1/10

With an intriguing (albeit kinda stupid) premise, I figured that the overall story would at least

          
        be somewhat interesting. However, since episode one the plot practically disappeared in a similar way to how some of the characters in this show vanished. And by that I mean in a vague and unexplained manner. The writers just seemed to disregard whatever plot elements they had in mind to specifically focus on the stupidity of the characters. The story doesn't go anywhere due to the singular focus on the idiotic decisions made by the anime's cast. Mayoiga unintentionally transferred from a mystery to a comedy. I won't go into detail on this point, but if you watch the anime, you'll understand where I'm coming from. The writing in this show is absolutely horrid.

Animation: 4/10

The art is quite basic. The majority of the characters each have their own original design, although they're animated in a rather simplistic manner. There's not much to say about the scenery, which is also kind of underwhelming. My main issue has to be the cgi monsters that appear. They're so poorly designed that I couldn't help but chuckle a bit when I first saw them. 

Sound: 4/10

The opening theme song is rather average and isn't anything special. The ending is mediocre and skippable. The background soundtrack helps keep the mood tense and edgy during suspenseful scenes- oh wait, there aren't any in this anime! The voice acting is average and bland, and I really don't like the main characters voice. It's rather annoying. 

Characters: 1/10

If you ever decide to create a twelve episode long anime, never, under any circumstances, have a cast of over thirty characters. That's right, the geniuses who created Mayoiga thought that they'd be able to effectively develop OVER THIRTY CHARACTERS in just TWELVE EPISODES. As you can imagine, the majority of the characters don't even have a personality, much less any development. Practically all of the characters are so stupid that I almost want to smash my head through a concrete tablet when I watch them. They're so disorganized, paranoid, and have no idea how to deal with the undesirable situations that they find themselves in. Then again, what else can you expect from a bunch of ignoramuses who want to escape society by taking a sketchy bus tour to an uncharted town that has a very probable chance of not even existing. Oh, and instead of developing as characters as the anime progressed, the doofuses in this show somehow manage to get even stupider and more annoying with each passing episode. Now that's an accomplishment!

Enjoyment: 2/10

Although I had hopes that Mayorga would be able to keep me entertained, my expectations were shattered almost immediately. By the latter half of the anime I even started cringing every time a character said something stupid, which was approximately every time they opened their mouths. While I was initially intrigued with this show due to the mysterious aspects of Mayoiga, I later found myself laughing at scenes that I assume were meant to be "unnerving" or "scary" due to Mayoiga's poor execution mixed with its abysmal cast of characters.

Overall: 2/10

It was very clear from the beginning that Mayoiga had the makings of a flawed anime. Nonetheless, I held on to the hope that it would be able to find some success. Unfortunately, the show just got worse and worse with each passing episode until it reached a point where it actually became painful to watch. Overall, Mayoiga is simply a very poorly constructed show that failed to deliver.
        

Helpful


read more
