       
    Story: 10/10
The story had so much potential. A group of people going to a mysterious village to start a new life?? Think of all the things they could've done with that in terms of the mystery, horror, and psychological aspect. 
Art: 6/10
I'm not going to lie, the art was actually really good, but the reason I have to give it a 6 is because the Nanaki looked like 3D models and I hate when anime do that. Although, I will admit, I did like the designs of the Nanaki because they looked really freaky and scary.
Sound: 5/10
The sound was really lazy. Yes, the opening song

          
        was good, but they only used like 5 soundtracks throughout the entire anime and at least 2 of them sounded like a variation/remix of the same song. 
Character: 1/10
Oh God, where do I even begin? The characters basically ruined the series. You would think that out of 30 characters, there would be at least one that I liked, right? Right?? Wrong! There wasn't a single likable character in the entire series! The only person who I kind of liked was Hayato, but only because he was the only person that constantly thought rationally. Then his backstory happened and all my respect for him went out the window. You could immediately tell Mitsumune was the main character just by looking at the cover of the anime. I hated him in the 1st episode! As soon as he made his introduction, my 1st thought was, "Oh no, you're gonna be the bland main character that nobody likes and is gonna be taken advantage of, aren't you?" And I was right. Everyone else was so 1 dimensional and retarded. 
Enjoyment: 1/10
It was a chore to get through this anime. 
Final score: 1/10
They did everything that you're NOT supposed to do in a mystery/horror/psychological anime. The mystery made absolutely no sense. I swear to God, every episode, I was thinking, "WHAT IS GOING ON?! I JUST WANNA KNOW WHAT THE MYSTERY IS!!" The horror elements were stupid because although I said the Nanakis looked scary, they were just a figment of people's imaginations, so it's not like they were ever a threat. And the worst thing about this anime is that NOBODY DIED!! There were 30 characters! Did they seriously expect us to remember and like every single character to the point that we would want all of them alive??(By the way, I call bullcrap on the fact that everyone could remember each other's names.) Honestly, I'm more disappointed than angry at this anime. I'm not joking when I said it had a lot of potential. The 1st 2 episodes were really good because they did an excellent job of setting the atmosphere. But that's it. It's a shame because this was an original work, but they're going to have to mark this as a failure. I don't recommend this anime.
        

Helpful


read more
