      
    Mayoiga: The Lost Village

The first visual that was released wherein Mitsumune and Misaki are together at the end of a narrow tunnel had caught my attentions. I read the plot of the anime and it's said there that there are 30 peoples who went to a village to escape from reality blah blah blah. I thought it would be a death game where only few people will be left at the end. But it was not.

The first episode was interesting because we can see the excitement among the people inside the bus and they all just know the mere fact that the village can be

          
        inhabited in order to run away from their miserable life, not knowing the consequences waiting for them when they arrived at the village. 

I was so eager and hyped to see what will happen on the next episode because the more that they kept the audience from waiting on what will happen to them inside the village, the more the excitement we can get. 

Story: 5

I was really disappointed when the anime revealed the mystery of its story to the viewers. It became a "frustrated horror" series wherein supernatural beings suddenly joined the plot of the story. Yes, I think they are not trying to impose a terrifying demeanor to the audience but they just want to show the tragic past of the characters using those supernatural creatures. 

Art: 6

Though the story was so dreadful, I can say that the art was good but not so amazing. There's a unique design for each character so you can easily distinguish a character from another one. The problem is, some of these designs were common and were somewhat similar from another anime series. The illustration of the setting was also fine and you can notice the mysterious ambiance exhibited by the village. 

Sound: 7

I really like the soundtrack of this anime and each scene has a suitable background music. I also commend the opening song used in this anime (Gensou Drive) because I can sense the misery content of the song which perfectly suits the anime. 

Character: 4

Only a few characters were emphasized and the remaining people were just a mere background characters who did nothing to make the anime series electrifying. Although some characters has an interesting past and personal story, I guess it would be better if all the characters had given the same weight or the creator had decided to diminished their number before starting to air the anime. 

Enjoyment: 6

I really enjoyed the first part of the show because I was always looking forward to see the next episode until the main story of the anime happened. There are so many unessential chitchat between the characters so I got bored when I further watched this anime series. But I guess that the ending of this anime was fine but not that totally satisfactory.

Overall: 6

Mayoiga is the same as other animes that was pretty good on the beginning but became stupid on the latter parts. My expectations on this anime flopped because I thought that it will have a very good story and it will be included on my favorite anime this season. 
        

Helpful


read more
