      
    I went into this anime with the expectation that it would have a very Danganronpa-esque feel, minus the hope versus despair struggle. As it turns out, I was wrong because I kept hoping it would get better as the show went on and was met instead with disappointment and despair that a show as bland as Mayoiga wasn't canceled by the third episode.

All this poorly structured show has to offer is four and a half hours of content so boring that it will make watching paint dry a thrill by comparison.

Ironically, despite not killing even one of the thirty characters first introduced, this anime managed

          
        to be lifeless all the way to the very end. I couldn't bring myself to care about a single person introduced except the bus driver. I could barely remember more than three of the characters' names, and most of that is only due to the fact that they were being constantly shouted throughout the episodes. Because Mayoiga failed to point out just one or two protagonists, much of the screentime that could've helped develop stronger viewer connections was wasted on scenes with minor characters that truly didn't contribute to the story whatsoever. 

While this is certainly not the first anime to have characters that suffer from same-face syndrome, it didn't help that everyone also reacted to every situation in one of two ways: unnecessary anger or complete calm. Occasionally, they would act finnicky and contradict themselves to progress the story. Eventually, these responses were so predictable that I found myself struggling to keep my eyes open, even as the characters faced perilous situations because, morality considered, I simply didn't care what happened to them. This apathy towards the enormous cast is mainly attributed to having way too many characters thrown at the viewer within the first few minutes and on top of that, attaching meaningless nicknames to every single one and switching between those and their real names for most of the series. Two's company, three's a crowd, and Mayoiga is a trainwreck. I wish it were a bus wreck so that maybe half of the cast could've been taken out and this anime would have a chance of being kind of okay.

While mysteries can be criticized for many things, the one thing they ought not be lacking in is intrigue. Viewers should be captivated by the story and anticipate answers to the questions posed by a mystery show and yet, each of the alluring ideas posed in the first episode were met with pretty understimulating explanations. These unsatisfying shortcomings sprinkled into the disorganized plotline were widely responsible for the decline of interest in the engimas that remained. There were far too many useless diversions to the main mystery at inopportune times which may have intended to build suspense but backfired horribly. A few of the characters' tragic backstories were developed which, one would hope, usually helps viewers relate. (Spoiler alert: it didn't work.) The others were thrown under the bus (not literally, but I crossed my fingers for this a lot) although perhaps this is a blessing because I would likely find the insides of my eyelids more interesting. Ultimately, if I don't care about a character, I'm not going to care about their past, no matter how traumatic you attempt to convince me it is. 

The final episode left me just as disillusioned as I always am after staring at Mayoiga for 24-ish minutes and asking myself when I became such a masochist. The conclusion fell flat and truly, I'm not mad... I'm just disappointed. The unveiling of the antagonist's motive for pulling the strings behind the scenes was sketchy at best, as it didn't really explain most of their actions or how they could've pulled off what they did. A lot of loose ends were left untied and surprise, surprise, the climax of the story was so underwhelming I think I'll never have to take Zzzquil to go to sleep again. 

Tldr; "The Lost Village" should be changed to "The Lost Interest." I've yawned so much watching this series that I'm going to join Evanescence so someone can wake me up inside. Don't waste your time.
        

Helpful


read more
