      
    You know, it's fun to watch something awful. Something that is so deceptive at the tin, but manages to trick you and constantly be bad when you least expect it. Yeah, it's not the most COMPELLING way to do things, but it's not like you'd watch a show that's awful expecting anything good.

Of course, I might sound like I'm turning in circles, but it's hard to put into words the absolutely amazing phenomenon that is Mayoiga. This show isn't just awful, it's awful on purpose and bathes in said awfulness, and the result is nothing short of absolutely hilarious.

You know all those side-characters in every

          
        anime ever that don't and won't ever amount to something? That's the characters in this show. And they're on a bus. To a village cut out from society. Trust me, it's amazing.

The story is...well, there is no story. In fact, I don't think any important major plot points are resolved satisfactorily, but that's not a bad thing in this case (at least, not in the conventional sense). But hey, what can I say. I ain't against innovation, if you know what I'm saying, and this show sure has some.

You might respond by saying, "Well, Sushi, even if the story is complete and utter garbage, but maybe the characters are OK". And then you'd be completely and utterly wrong, because these characters are the worst and best part of this entire mess.

They're all completely and utterly insane, make absolutely no sense and break social taboos for no real reason other than doing so.

They also happen to be conveniently forgetful.

Like, from as far back as episode 1, the characters on a bus to an abandoned village start singing about a hippo's life. The hippo is apparently very sad. And went to school, got married and was born to fanfare.

And then one character asks his best bud how does he know the lyrics, then sings along everyone else for no real reason. Yeah, it's this kind of show.

Of course, the madness doesn't stop there; there's a girl who screams bloody murder every time she talks, a pack of rapists including a racist stereotype of a black person and the list goes on.

Artwork is standard PA Works material, but character designs are ultimately very forgettable. Animation quality is the weakest from any PA Works show to date, being very random in terms of consistency and having a lot of really ugly looking CGI, as well as the fact that it feels like this show was also shaded in some kind of dark filter everywhere.

Soundtrack is completely forgettable, though special credit needs to go to the absolutely amazing (read: hilarious) voice acting, which manages to add a whole new layer to just how utterly stupid the show is. Seriously, these folks were having the time of their lives yelling out and making their lines sound as dumb as possible, it's AMAZING.

Long story short; just watch it. It's so utterly bad it's bloody hilarious, and my god do I hope there's more of this some day.
        

Helpful


read more
