      
    Have you ever watched a show all the way through just to see if it pulls through in the end but it was all just one big joke? This is one of those shows. The story could have been very good. I actually expected it to be 5-8 minute long episodes but to be very interesting. This was not at all the case.

STORY
There was a good premise here. They could have done something really interesting. I was half expecting something like Another's story to either be referenced or have a huge influence on this one. I was so very disappointed with how everything was executed.

          
        The story starts off nice and easy for the first 1-2 episodes then just jumps into the fire and doesn't stop for a moment. This is why it gets boring. The stories rhythm is completely off. You expect this nice slow horror film to build up with tension and suspense given the feeling of the first two episodes just to have it take you off that haunted house ride and throw you on that rollercoaster down devils ally. After the second episode it felt more like an action scifi story.

ART
I can't complain because the art is just my type. That's what hurts most about this is that despite being one of my favorite styles the story is so bad I can't stand it.

SOUND
I didn't have much of an issue here except on certain parts. When the show starts to take off the sound quality fluctuates depending on the scene which moves quickly and is sometimes hard to follow. I had to go back a couple times just to hear what some people are saying because I didn't want it up to high when the sound got loud.

CHARACTER - The longest One
This is where the show really takes the cake. I have never seen a more poorly written cast of characters without it having been done on purpose. One of my biggest problems is the survivalist duo. The cat girl and the ranger boy. If they had a single ounce of survivalist in them, they didn't show it once in this show. Ranger boy didn't make it into the military because of his height alone, trust me. From my personal experiences, every time the survivalists cat girl and ranger boy were on the screen I had to stop myself from shouting profanities at my monitor. One of the biggest offences this entire show made was that they were quick to lock up this Jack fellow which he had coming for attempting to assault another person, but let Lovepon, who nearly tortured a young man, the same person who she had blatantly openly admitted to nearly killing earlier, walk around the entire show without repercussion; Yet, the second someone hints that Masaki might be a "ghost", everyone loses their shit. Another unforgivable phenomenon is when things started to go bad, everyone and I mean everyone all of a sudden is Sherlock Holmes' long lost cousin. The most hilarious part about that is, I would rate all of them at best a 3 out of 100 in deductive reasoning. Who the hell just starts throwing blame and making up accusations day one of being in an isolated area? LITERALLY ONE PERSON WAS MISSING. He hadn't even been missing for more than an hour and people were flipping out. It felt like a lot of the time I was watching psychotic apes screaming at each other. If they were so worried about one person going missing, no one should have split up and been on their own. They all should have remained in the same building, even the same room that night.

ENJOYMENT
The first and second episode are the only episodes I enjoyed from this show. Should have have scrapped every episode after those 2 and redid the entire show.

OVERALL
Honestly, it is the worst show I've ever watched. However, I hate gurren Lagann just a little bit more than this one, but that's for personal reasons. Watch this show if you think it's worth watching over just about any other one out there. Except Gurren Lagann...
        

Helpful


read more
