      
    - Plot
Wow. The let down on this show was way too real. It's been since the last episode aired that I've seen Mayoiga, and I have to admit, I've given it maybe only two throughs since it aired. There was quite a few people who were interested in Mayoiga and were also concerned about the fact there was more characters to keep track of then there was episodes. Still, I had hope! The synopsis, in my opinion, was greatly written. While Mayoiga for me was not an awful anime, it did have some issues starting with its genre. When many of us who did watch

          
        Mayoiga through the end saw the "psychological" and mystery part of the genre, we sort of expected to be left psychologically scarred. There were expectations of death to be happening everywhere since we had 30 main characters and 12 episodes. Us high-hopers were concerned about how the pacing would be and how much could really be fit into 12 episodes. As it turns out, not a lot could be done with 12 episodes. I definitely feel like Mayoiga could have been much better than it was if it would have been executed (pun intended) differently. It lacked portrayal of emotion in every episode. I couldnt bring myself to feel or think the same way as the characters, and the scenes with the Nanaki lacked intensity beyond measures. I think its important to feel what your characters are feeling. This is how we emotionally connect with shows. In so many scenes I wanted to sympathize with and cry for the characters, but I just couldnt do it. With this genre, it should have felt more intense than it ended up being. Come on! Its a psychological anime, give me some mind blowing worthy content. T_T

- Characters
Having 30 character listed as main characters was a pretty bad mistake. It left crazy expectations in our heads as high-hopers. Id say the true main characters here are Masaki, Mitsumune and Koharun. Im disappointed, but not surprised at how little we got to connect with the characters. Most of them were too plain, and there were some very annoying personalities in the character list such as execution girl. I will easily say that she was the worst character in this show. One thing that really bothered me with the characters was their indecisiveness on if they wanted to turn against each other, or trust each other. Rather than killing everyone off, the creators just put them on a downward spiral of confusion.
Anywho, into a few characters...

Mitsumune Sakai
If I was able to feel any emotional connection with any of the characters, I'd have to say that Mitsumune had the biggest one. He is a bit too trusting and is a bit quick to "fall in love," if that's what you want to say a kid his age does. Really he just developed interest a little too quickly. He started out by saying Mitsumune was an online name but it soon came out that this was his real name, and the reason behind his little lie about this topic comes out in the end. He does have a pretty sad story, I must say, so I feel for the kid.

Masaki
Masaki is definitely the main character in Mayoiga. In the end, a lot of this show and its secrets tie back into her. She's a 17 year old girl who has a fairly bright personality. She was shown to suffer from motion sickness, which did have pretty hilarious timing in that scene. She's pretty odd, however, and as the show goes on, many of the members of the tour grow very suspicious of her to the point of wanting her dead. She's incredibly emotional as well, and does have random outbursts usually around Mitsumune.

As far as character development goes in Mayoiga, it was pretty rushed. Those who did accept their Nanaki did so within seconds. I did appreciate the changes that came from Koharun, Valkana and Hayato. As far as development goes, those three showed the most improvement, and especially Valkana became more likable then he originally was as the show went on. Something I thought cool was Valkanas decision to stay with Koharun because he wanted to see if shes the good person he originally thought she was. *cough* he looooooves her *cough* I was glad that some people decided to stay back too. Ive been seeing many people say that they didnt like the ending, but for me is was pleasant. While the rest of the anime was dark, the final moments were bright and happy-ish. I guess the whole point here is that they shouldnt have had so many characters in a 12 episodes show.

- Look & Sound
This was one of the better parts of Mayoiga. I thought the characters had pretty cool designs as far as hair and clothing goes. The scenery was basically just woods, so it wasnt special or anything but it did look nice. The Nanaki were uniquely designed to fit each character. This was a cool concept, but also REALLY creepy. I use the term creepy not about their forms because Nanaki themselves were not creepy, actually they were very, VERY weird, but the idea behind them was creepy. I would t want the most awful part of my life haunting me this way, so it did force some thought in me on what my Nanaki would be like. I had to pause at Mitsumines first Nanaki because I was so confused. I actually turned the tv off because it was some hentai looking crap and my dad was in the room... awkward This may have also been confusing because most of Mayoiga was set in night time, so it was hard to clearly see and make out some of the Nanaki. I think the people who designed it were trying to make it feel more suspenseful and scary, but thats not what I got out of it. It was just majorly confusing. The animation had it's up and downs, about equal parts of good and bad, but with how this show was for me, it was definitely a better part of the whole experience.

I did enjoy both the opening and endings music and animation very much. The sound effects were okay, but were easily drowned out by others sounds and screams. This was probably their attempt at some horror, which didnt quite work. The voice acting never really grew annoying which was nice with some of these characters personalities. Overall it had pretty decent sound, making this area probably the best part of Mayoiga.

- Overall
This show didnt meet my expectations at all, but it wasnt the worst anime I've seen. A few improvements to the background, Nanaki and less characters could have made this a better anime, but its a bit too late for that. Im sure Ill forget all about it within a year or two, but it I did enjoy it in some parts when I wasnt questioning why I was watching it. Also, the last few episodes were pretty good. They were certainly better than the early-mid episodes where I was seriously considering dropping it. I think if youre going to watch this anime, you need to go into with little expectations and an open mind for sure. If I was to give it a rating, itd be 4/10. It was very average with a side of poor.
        

Helpful


read more
