       
    Sometimes bad shows are outright hard to watch, then there's Mayoiga the most entertaining train wreck I've ever seen. It's the most successful so-bad-it's-good anime I've ever seen. 

Story: 8
People who hate their lives in society escape to a place that, unknown to them, feeds on emotional baggage and manifests it into a physical form. I might suggest that the writers so cleverly chose a plot device that makes character development laughably easy, however, it quickly becomes apparent that Mayoiga does not adhere to convention that would allow such generalizations.

The story itself without spoiling is mainly about the people trying to escape the village, trying

          
        to not get killed by the monsters, and arguing over different things. The long dialogue bits lengthens the plot, but never worsens it. Ironic humor is sprinkled into almost all of it, preventing the dialogue from getting stale. The comedy is akin to something like deadly premonition, so if you're not able to appreciate something that knows it's bad and embraces it wholly then you should avoid Mayoiga.

The entire plot felt like it was leading up to the climax (which caused it to drag in the beginning), the second half of the show was much more thrilling than the first. However, the result of the buildup made for a spectacular finale and an equally satisfying denouement. 

Lost Village is bursting with symbolism that can go from strange to ludicrous.
The entire story arc only is a couple of days long in the actual show so you are better off watching it all at once, as there are some rampant pacing issues. Long stretches of time will be spent on characters sitting and arguing, then only a few minutes would be dedicated to action or flashbacks. 

Characters: 9
Mayoigas giant cast of crazies seems to be the main problem people have with the show. Its easy to say there are too many characters! and they dont get enough development, but really theyre what gives the show so much charm. Wacky personalities, absurd reactions, and laughably stupid decisions make them all fun to watch.  
The characters are all quirky and have absurd arcs that are visible from beginning to end. The minor-supporting characters were all grouped together as one mass of people who all generally behave the same way, in truth they could have been reduced to 2 or 3 characters. The sub-supports were necessary for the building of tension and rising calamity (they were depicted as afraid and irrational throughout the show)
If you like analyzing characters thoroughly this show is good for you. (Like half of the characters are dumped into one boat and show symptoms of "the writer didn't care about these people but added them for the sake of more appeal syndrome", no matter how many characters the writer added there was no way around the already niche plot.
The leads make up for the flaws of the minor-supporting characters, each of them like complicated origami, folded by the drama of their past, and the audience would watch the lost village unfold them.

Sound: 8
I felt as though the sound designers were working in tandem with the writers as they made this show, the music for each scene was perfect, rising tempo for more thrilling scenes, a rising build then quick cut to silence for maximum shock value. Even if it wasn't the action that caused the tempo to rise it could have been the discovery of a secret, a realization, the drama is what fueled it most often.
The use of subtle sounds in earlier episodes was very effective in building tension when the monster was finally revealed there was the maximum shock.
I also really liked the opening song, and the art from it became progressively understandable throughout the season. (I wish this was a standard for the mystery genre but sadly it is not).

Art: 7.5
Visually the show is fairly appealing. Some odd CGI throws it off, but the varying character designs make up for this.  
The art of the monsters is incredibly well made and perfectly obscene. Some 3d art which didn't bother me because of its infrequency and it definitely fit the scenes it appeared in, ex: during bouts of chaos it would appear and cause the tone to become less serious. 
The director understands how to convey tone well, and the tone is the powerhouse of the emotion driven by the characters. Correct timing for a close-up and when to transition to maintain flow from character to character were imperative to sustaining the tone. The best portion of the transitions in the show comes from flashback scenes when transitioning from present to past. The pace is never broken through the flashbacks, only enhanced as more story is revealed through them.

Enjoyment: 10
Ok, so the first few episodes may make give you the feeling that you're in for a bumpy ride. The introduction to the bus full of characters is not very motivating for the audience... I have to admit I was just hoping for them all to get killed off by monsters or by some curse. However, by the end, my mind was far from hopes of a slaughter and moved into something far unexpected.

Instead of the horror, I expected what I got was ironic, macabre, and humorous.
The plot did drag in certain areas, it felt as though the writers were desperate to give the minor-supporting character group some kind of purpose, especially when they were given superfluous screen time. They had arguments about sometimes necessary things that could be resolved easily, which hurt the overall enjoyment of the first half of the show. The minor annoyances were made up for the melodrama and awkward conversations that were worth caring about appeared.
When I feared that the show might consistently center around the minor-supporting characters until the very end, the second half of the show appeared! And it answered ALL of my prayers. The mystery kicked into full speed and was truly unforgettable. (As much as I loved the pace boost as the story drew near to the climax, things flew by a bit fast and when the show is only 12 episodes long I find it better to re-watch for full understanding.) 

Overall: 8.5
I expected The Lost Village an okay bloodbath with little to grasp to in terms of involvement, but it's actually quite a superb spectacle.
I went in expecting a standard horror show, but it sunk its hooks into me, more and more, and in the end, all that was an unexpected but welcome ironic comedy. The sheer satisfaction its given me has made it one of my favorites.
I recommend that you watch all 12 episodes in succession, many of them end on cliffhangers with loose ends left dangling in the air, but they are mostly tied in the next episode. (all loose ends are tied by the end so don't worry!!)

I'm sorry that I don't have any anime recommendations for shows that I think are similar to The Lost Village, but one of my favorite games Deadly Premonition quite similar to this.
        

Helpful


read more
