      
    One sentence review: Mayoiga is a perfect example of third-rate anime that takes itself too seriously with its cardboard characters and causes few unintended tragicomic chuckles.

You dont need to eat the whole pie to judge the taste. I watched the first 4 episodes, and wrote the early review, following the infamous three episode rule. Yet, Mayoiga was an anime so insipid that with all its supposed mysteries, it failed to catch attention of viewers. My opinion changed for worse after the final episode. I might as well write these words three months ago as my first impressions and wait to post it now. Im a

          
        victim of three episode rule. Try to watch first episodes with open mind, if you dont like it, thats that, drop it. Life is too short to spend on every future possibility.

Throughout the airing, many argued that Mayoiga was intentionally bad. And because of that, it was an ingenious comedy, not a serious story. But puppet heads for characters, talking stupidly and hysterically a lot in long dialogues would be 'intentional comedy' if there were actual comedic part about it: Mayoiga is at best a tragicomedy, and the tragic part comes not from the story  the story is devoid of much emotion anyway  but from the tragic attempt of the creators to make something and fail. So I cannot laugh at them heartily, because I would feel like a bully.

Story: usual gimmicks

First, good points: no school settings, not much fan service. Thats all. A group of people go to a hidden village to start life anew. Character introductions start immediately, with the worst possible way, letting each one literally stand up and talk. A bus-full of characters, all eccentric and therefore typical in anime world, each you might have seen in any other average show. Given the state of characters, the anime relies heavily on the mystery aspect to grab attention. It is done by withholding information, adding some eerie elements such as some creepy singing, dark nights, an uninhabited village (but otherwise filled with all necessary equipments, food, and even a jail), something lurking in the woods, etc. This is a story with implicit promise that if the viewer tags along until the end, they will be rewarded with some great ending, find how the mysteries are clarified and learn truth about the village, the mountain. (And let me tell beforehand, that promise wasn't kept in the final episode). It is all good and nice, but for a mystery to work, one needs to connect with characters. Otherwise who cares about an uninteresting nobody experiencing problems? Another part of the mystery is the character backgrounds, which obviously are revealed slowly, dragging at times, and unsurprisingly, we discover that many characters have some tragic past, such as being scapegoat, bullied, lost dear ones, mistreated, etc. The creators dont fail to use the easiest way of characterization. You want viewers connect with the characters? Make them victimized. For to hate the villains, make them despicable caricatures. Sometimes simple mixture of traits is made to have a semi-grey zone, but even this falls into the usual categories. These are slowly revealed, not at once in order to hold the mystery element as long as possible. This anime clumsily hides a lot of information as an investment for later to make some shocking revelations and plot twists, treating its viewers as imbeciles to make them continue watching. Even that investment for the resolution, the final moment of the story, turns out to be a puff. You wait for something to happen. And what happens? Nothing! And some fans call this ingenious for being that bad. Many people can be the Einstein of being bad, and every lousy story could be called masterpiece if you overthink enough. But despicable stories are not what we look for in storytelling. It was not the Einstein of being bad that contributed to our lives, but the real scientist one who brought human progress to new heights.

Characters: lots of archetypes

You can spot the main character the instant you see his ordinariness among others in the bus. He is our hero, weak looking, a coward now and then, but defending others selflessly, kind, bland, nice, wimp, boring. In short, a face youre already familiar with. After a person is lost our wise hero asks Is it really a good idea to call the police? If it isnt, then only in an event of genocide people should call the police. There is an aloof character, a shy one, a cute one, a potential murderer one, a silent one, a mild tsundere one, a psycho girl, an adventure seeking one, an aspiring detective, a middle aged bus driver who acts like a whiny child, a bossing type, a messing around potential rapist one. The list goes on. They are slightly crazy, illogical and violent. Obviously for a reason they all want to start a new life, so being lousy and abnormal could be understandable if they werent typical. They lack depth. It feels like they are acting that way for the sake of appearance and to gain individuality, failing miserably every time. Its a method to draw curiosity which creators immediately jumped into to materialize. Characters take themselves too seriously, like a child playing adult. They made me chuckle and cringe few times. From the beginning, I predicted that shock factor would be used, one or two plot twists, but I didnt care for the heroes to bother with their future or unforeseen developments in the plot. Great plot twist comes with characters we love. And this anime failed on that respect as well. The ending was so poor, I couldn't predict its degree of shoddiness.

Art and Sound: plain

I feel obliged to write at least two paragraphs on art and sound departments. But on Mayoiga, it will waste your time for the reason that they are both so ordinary that I can copy and paste the same section of a random review of mediocre anime and nobody can feel the difference. The visuals are ordinary, too ordinary with usual character drawings, such as pitiful efforts to make them appear different and unique. The verdict for animation is that it could be made a decade ago and I couldnt tell the difference. Sound is as unimpressive as the animation, with forgettable opening and ending. There are many anime out there which heavily rely on great visuals and sound, effectively redeeming poor plot and making anime overall enjoyable. Mayoiga isnt one of them. Low budget is apparent from the very beginning.

Final episode, enjoyment and overall

Like a dying person with bleeding wounds, I had a glimpse of hope that Mayoiga might do something watchable in the end and I will forgive all its drawbacks and tell everyone I was wrong about it. But it surpassed my perceptual boundaries of horrible. My early rating of 5 dropped to 4. Honestly, its hard to write negative review of any anime. Long working hours and low wages in the industry make everyone sympathetic to those hard working people. Yet, every year watching dozens of generic works that will be forgotten in a year or two isnt helpful. Expectation to see something extraordinary, solid, awesome demands fans to be harsh on their criticisms. Otherwise mediocrity and 'intentional badness' suck creativity, leave us dissatisfied. A genuine art piece is visceral, stays with us, inspires us, and sometimes makes us better or worse persons. Mayoiga, a below mediocre work, delivers not much enjoyment. It isnt worth it, but you can force yourself to overthink or lower your expectation to get some pleasure. For me, Mayoiga is a passing memory. It will be forgotten and lost in few seasons, thrown into the dustbin of anime history. 
        

Helpful


read more
