      
    A journey of some young people with hard experiences and pasts seeking to find a place where they could start a fresh new start and lead a better life. when I first read the synopsis of this anime I was expecting a great story full of suspense and thrill, unfortunately I was quite disappointed in the end.

This review might contain some spoilers, or something that could hind to a spoiler, so be alert!

At first it was quite exciting, people arriving at a mysterious place with a bizarre atmosphere and incidences, later on those people starting to lose they temper when they found themselves confronting the

          
        same thing that were trying desperately to run away from. It was indeed quite thrilling for me in the beginning, but a good beginning doesn't necessarily mean a good anime.

In my opinion, the main thing that made a letdown impression on me was the characters of this story, first of all; they were too many of them, about 30 or more, so-without a doubt-it was a struggle to keep up with their names, attitudes, personalities and so on, especially since there's only 12 episodes for this anime, secondly; most of the characters were quite annoying, I know this is a matter of perspective, but I can't help but to have a bad impression on the anime when it's full of annoying characters. 

I believe it's fair to say that the main theme of this anime was the psychological part, talking about the psychology of mankind is quite hard since even the greatest scientist have a great deal of problems dealings with this aspect, I'm saying this to be clear that I don't quite understand what a "psychological scar" is, here almost every character has this scar, and they find themselves confronting something like an embodiment of these scars, and for that they give in for fear and horror... even though they realize that what they're seeing isn't actually real. Here I want to point out my point; personally I don't believe that the human psychic can be frail to this extent, but then again, humans' psychic is quite hard to understand, and my positive opinion about this anime is that they are trying to view the psychic of normal persons, not of some serial killers and psychopath, which the general populace is more concerned about. 

Continuing talking about the story, like I said before, it was quite thrilling and interesting in the beginning with high suspense, later on they try some plot twist to make things more interesting (or at least make it interesting again)... which I think they failed at, with the progression of the story I just keep thinking it's getting more and more lame, especially with the characters acting more and more childish for their ages, in the ending it seems like they want us to have some feelings and emotions about some incidents we don't know the first thing about, something I would consider to be too forced. At least the conclusion of this series had a deep message for the viewers so I guess it wasn't a total waste of time after all.

The art was good, I believe it could've been better if they made it more dark of gloomy, but it's not a horror anime after all, the audio work was good too but nothing special about it, at least there's nothing special I can point out.

In terms of enjoyment; well I think it was clear from what I previously said, from high suspense to big disappointment in the end, I was expecting this anime to be a hit for the spring season but expectations aren't always met conveniently.

In the end here's my rating for this anime:-
Story: 6/10
Art and Sound: 7/10
Character 3/10
Enjoyment 4/10
Overall 5/10

Thanks for reading!
        

Helpful


read more
