      
    Mayoiga is something that I can only describe as the closest anime will ever get to achieving M.Night Shamalamadingdong status. Its got it all, awkward as heck dialogue, absurd characters, and of course surreal plot twists that just make us go WHOA, thats kinda dumb. What can I say, I loved it for all the wrong reasons. 

What It Does Right: 

+A Weird, Trolling Take on the Horror/Psychological Genre
Mayoiga like a good old Shyamalan film has that weird feeling that kicks in as soon as you start watching. Who are these characters, Why are they here, What the heck are they doing? These questions just

          
        pop up and as soon as you want to leave you just can't help, but be entranced by the surrealism that keep you in through the end as seen by the many people who watched this through to the end knowing it was trash. This show is the embodiment of a troll if I ever saw one. By just reading the synopsis and looking at pictures and PVs, you would come to your own conclusions that people are gonna die left and right or Lord of the Flies-esque conflicts or just Another 2.0. Mayoiga knows this and gives us the revelations that would have your hand glued to your face while the creators are laughing in their studio.

+Soundtrack Fits I Guess?
To fit in with the weird tone with the show is a soundtrack that offers equal absurdity, mystery, and tension. It doesnt sound exactly serious, but its one that seems to embrace the shows constant love for wacky moments and cliffhangers. I cant help, but get invested into the show no matter how much I tried to pull back cause the soundtrack keeps trolling me into thinking that the show might pull something serious (only to be replaced by absurdity once again). The opening does a similar job by giving us a catchy opening to remind us that this show might actually be trying and that these characters have names. The ending theme is actually a nice soothing track that reminds me of camping trips. Congrats for the voice actors for keeping up with their crazy characters.

What It Does Wrong (aka Everything Else):

-30 Characters, All Bizarrely Dreadful
30 characters in a 12 episode show is astounding. Mayoiga doesnt bother to make any of them break beyond 1 dimensional. Instead of adding any semblance of depth, the show gives each character a cookie cutter-personality and multiplies that to unbearable levels and have each talk to one another with the effort of a low-level fanfiction. The result making every character hilariously horrendous. The main lead is the most irritatingly generic lead you can think of. Another character is so obsessed with executions to a point that she cant go a sentence without mentioning EXECUTE and yet somehow she is one of the most trusted characters in the show yeah you get the point.

-Development is Bizarrely Dreadful
Not even a third of the cast get a backstory, which goes to show how useful they are to the story. When a character does get their backstory revealed, it feels as if it has nothing to do with the why the characters act the way they do. They only serve to add more absurdity in a show that is already overflowing with it. In the case that character development might happen, it happens way too fast and is brushed off as an afterthought. The theme of the show is accepting your past, but Mayoiga didnt seem too interested in fleshing that out at all.

-Dialogue is Bizarrely Dreadful
What the heck are these people blabbering about? Why are they saying that now? Do you know what situation youre in? These are questions youll constantly be wondering every time someone in Mayoiga opens their mouth. The interactions between the characters are quite fascinating. The delivery feels so awkward when it tries to be serious and the rest of the lines seem devoted to calling its own crap out. One of the more used gags being self-aware enough to know that 30 characters is way too much and forgetting each others names is just one of the many jabs to break the ice.

-Generic Designs Except a Bizarrely Dreadful CGI
Every character design is painfully generic and the animation to support that is equally bleh. There is nothing else to say. The backgrounds are okay and kind of give off a feeling of a lost village, but even then it still feels derivative and lacks the atmosphere to be taken even slightly seriously. Mayoiga doesnt try anything special to catch your eye with the exception of a certain use of CGI. When this CGI contraption was put to use, it was beyond jarring, beyond ugly, and just laugh out loud bad. Oh yeah CGI jumpscares, ew.

-When its not Bizarrely Dreadful, its Boring
Mayoiga cant even seem to maintain its stupidity and when it doesnt, it devolves to just bad and boring which is the worst combination. The characters just spout off random gibberish with no connection because its part of their personality and it leads to a good while of disengaging banter going nowhere. This happens quite a few times throughout the show and it reveals the Mayoigas true colors as a trainwreck that just keeps on moving. You know a show is bottom of the barrel when you want it to just stop trying and embrace its idiocy.

-Being So Bad its Good Still Makes You Bad
Masterpieces like Sharknado, Birdemic, or The Room are loved for just how much of a disaster they are even if the intent was serious. Even then, people label those as 1-3/10, and Mayoiga in my opinion should be no exception. Even if the show supplied me with laughs every episode that does not equate to the show being any better in quality. Maybe this show will be a cult classic, but the unmemorable characters will stay unmemorable and the attempts at being mysterious will stay ridiculous. But what if the show was intentionally bad? Mayoigas over-the-top characters, seemingly self-aware dialogue, and love for ruining expectations make it seem bad on purpose. If this was the case, that makes Mayoiga even worse since that implies that the makers are intentionally okay with showing us terrible shows and that is not okay.

My Pointless Enjoyment:
Out of all the shows in the Spring 2016 season, I enjoyed Mayoiga the most. It was just too funny. I was sucked into the awfulness and I looked forward to every week to see if the show could top itself in its foolishness and it never failed to amaze me. I popped out my seat in pure awe with each infuriating cliffhanger and every idiotic revelation. This is the perfect show to group watch with your buddies in your dorm, anime club, or just anywhere. Something about Mayoiga has a special charm and if that charm gets to you, youll be in for a wild ride.

Overall:
In the end, I gotta give the show props for pulling all the crap it did while painting it with a nice coat of absurdity. For other anime recommendations I got nothing, youll likely never get an experience like Mayoiga ever again. So you know what, give it a try. Maybe youll have a blast like I did, or maybe youll drop it in half an episode and I wont blame you. I give Mayoiga a 2/10.

PS: Feel free to comment on my review. I'm always up for advice so I can improve my reviewing skills. Thanks for reading! 
        

Helpful


read more
