      
    When the best part of an anime is a weird song about a sad hippo, you know something went wrong.

Story:
A bus full of people decided to say goodbye to reality and move to the mystic village of Nanaki. A promising premise that could have gone into any direction, from relationship drama to Battle Royale bloodbath. Sadly, it took no route at all and kept screwing around with developments and plot twists that don't really make any sense. It also has the problem of being only 12 episodes but still trying to show stuff that could easily fill out 50 or more. In the end, it

          
        is just an incoherent mess, that barely makes sense.
1/10

Art:
It's not bad in general, but t's clearly visible that this wasn't blessed with a high budget. Which is surprising, seeing how this was Diomedeas only anime this season. Really bad however is the term I would choose for the CGI effects. Those monsters looked laughable at best, not only because of their weird nature, but also because they looked like they belong anywhere but this very anime.
3/10

Sound:
Opening and Ending were pretty good, voice acting ranged from solid to good, sound effects were absolutely okay. But seriously, have you ever seen an anime with bad sound?
7/10

Characters:
I don't know what kind of characters I expected, but certainly not THIS. Besides the fact that at least half of them could have easily been left out, the ones who get some screentime are horrible. Nothing they do makes sense, the conclusions they come up with are ridiculous and the two main characters are the personifications of bland. At best, they are unintentionally funny, but this isn't supposed to be a comedy.
1/10

Enjoyment:
Watching Mayoiga did not physically hurt me...but it came dangerously close. The only way to slightly enjoy this anime is to take it as a comedy. You know, the same way some people think the Twilight movies are great comedies. I prefer actual comedies though, so this does nothing for me. I highly recommend you DON'T watch Mayoiga, that's 4 hours you'll never get back.
1/10

Overall:
2.6/10
        

Helpful


read more
