      
    Spring is long gone. Some shows are still ongoing and are gr8 (rezero), some shows were breathers (flying witch), and of course, some just pure fanservice (you know which show). One of the most controversial shows of this season, The Lost Village, left people with mixed opinions. Some hated how unlikeable the cast was, while others loved it for that reason. What are my feelings on this show? Well, find out right now. Letsa go ona bus and see for ourselves:

The story is about 30 people traveling to a place called nanaki village, where they can erase their previous lives and start a new one.

          
        However, things are not as they seem. Its a very dumb story, but that just makes it all the more fun.

The art is nothing particularly amazing. The character designs get a bit repetitive, but there are some well done scenes. The animation is a little stiff, the cgi could be better, but again, its not bad. Just kinda average.

Nothing particular for sound. The soundtrack has nothing worth mention, but the opening is good, though a little lazy since its mostly still pictures. The song is good tho. The ED is relaxing. The voice acting is pretty much average, except for mitsumunes AWFUL voice. 

The characters are a mixed bag for me. 30 entire characters, yet only like 6 or 7 get any focus. The other billion don't do much, and get no development at all. But, the few that do get focus develop, and have a backstory. In the beginning, I hated mitsumune, but by the end of the series, I liked his character. Becas he has development. 

So, with all of these flaws, why am I giving the show such a high score? Because of how much I enjoy it. Yes, enjoyment plays the biggest factor in anime. If you don't enjoy an anime at least a little, why are you watching? But this series, something about it I just loved. Each episode got better. The plot, while dumb, kept me on the edge of my seat. I enjoyed watching the characters interact with their environment and each other. The ending could've been better though, and theres plenty of room for a season 2. 

Now for categorys for the final score crap.

Story: 7
Art: 8
Animation: 6
Soundtrack: 7
Characters: 8
Voice Acting: 6
Enjoyment: 9

Overall: 7.29
My Score: 8.23

Not for everyone, but those who enjoy it will love it!!!!
        

Helpful


read more
