      
     Many people within the anime community complain about the degrading quality of modern anime works.  Though I always try to view anime in a positive light, I can't deny that Mayoiga is a great example of this. I mean it was so mediocre and pretentious and it just fell into an eternal abyss of dissapointment. 

The lost village is the type of show that tries several ideas and concepts but fails miserably at several of these endeavors. It desperately attempts to incorporate deep themes but can hardly get down dynamic characterization and development, not to mention a completely muddled narrative.

 The story of

          
        Mayoiga follows thirty young individuals who are going to a village to escape all of their problems. This is an incredibly promising concept which could have been amazing if it was handled and developed properly. However a main issue is that a core story doesn't really appear until midway through the entire series. This leads to much confusion throughout the entire series because even after a narrative is established it doesn't take long for it to completely fall apart. 

The main characters of Mayoiga had great potential. The character of mitsumune had an interesting backstory and some valid motivation. However he is a really annoying and bland character and he hardly grows throughout the story. Masaki is kind of the standard timid quiet innocent girl that is very generic. Koharun was also pretty bland but there was a good plot twist involving her. Hayato was probably the best and most interesting character and his motives were very relatable. 

The other side characters in Mayoiga is the perfect example of a large amount of characters who don't mean crap to the viewer. Honestly just info dumping their backstories at random is not a good way to develop a character. Their were a couple of semi-interesting side characters but the rest were just hit garbage. The cast was way too big and it really hindered the potential of the show.

The themes of accepting your psychological scars is explored through characters I can hard,y care about. This makes the anime very pretentious due to it trying to be deep but failing miserably. 

The art of Mayoiga is actually good. There is a feel of modern polish and I had no problem with it. The voice acting was also good and the actors portrayed their respective characters accurately. The music was excellent with a great opening and ending themes. The ost also built good atmosphere. 

In conclusion Mayoiga is a series that had an amazing amount of potential in its premise but just completely flopped. It has some redeemable aspects but there are much better less pretentious mystery anime out there so I can't reccomened this anime.
        

Helpful


read more
