      
    Mayoiga wasn't that bad. Hear me out.

When I read the synopsis EVERYTHING appealed to me. 
People like me going somewhere to start a new life? yes.
Setting is in an abandoned rural village? yes!
Horror to ensue?? YES!
SOMETHING WASN'T RIGHT THIS WAS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE?! YE- wait, what?

Oh boy, was it a ride. Not a good one, but a ride indeed.

I gave this anime a 5 out of 10. The plot, on paper/in theory, is one of the most refreshing I've seen in a while. It's different and it tackles something people in real life deal with on a near daily basis- their inner turmoil

          
        and the fact that they want to escape it.
Now, I'm not sure why they did this, but execution (lol) was subpar at best. If I leave out their flawed attempt at giving their million characters depth, this could have been something worth more than 5/10. But their feeble attempt at doing so made this into an at most times almost unbearable watch.
We're then left with characters you can't help but hate because all we know about them is  a 2 minute-3 frame backstory that makes you think its alright to pick on them because they're being whiny imps. I'm left with no sympathy, nothing to help me grasp on to when there was suspense building during the show and between the characters. Basically I'm just left confused and wondering why they even bothered doing it.

I enjoyed the plot a fair amount, though. Like I said, the idea behind it was pretty good. Especially when things started to shape up to what it was supposed to be. The beginning of the series was just sloppy and a slight annoyance, however, and had it not been for the fact that I started this show when it was complete I probably would have dropped it by episode 2 or 3.

In hindsight, if I'm honest I couldn't see this series get any better if there were more episodes- rather I think most people, myself included, would enjoy it more had it had less characters to focus on, perhaps 7 tops. This would give writers more than enough time to flesh out their main characters while sticking to their main objective- supposedly scaring the hell out of us while teaching us a valuable lesson (don't run away from your past blaah...).

which leads me to genre. If you think you're getting into something akin to "Another" or "Higurashi" you've got another thing coming to you. While I silently applaud their attempt at trying to scare us, it's not really horror. Mystery, definitely. Comedy? Perhaps under the "it's so bad it's good" genre.

So, in short, good plot ideas, horribad execution. Overall not the worst I've seen. Definitely not something I want to see again, either.
        

Helpful


read more
