      
    Mayoiga is one of these series with high expectations that aren't quite achieved.Even if it says it's horror and mystery,I believe it's actually pretty straightforward and didn't give me many reasons to contemplate.

Story(6/10)(Some spoilers here,sorry!)

The idea of a story seemed interesting and unusual.A group of people want to get away from their old life and scars so they get in an ''excursion'' to a new place no one knows.After they arrive though,there isn't anyone there so they use what they find freelly.Because of some conflicts between those guys,some try to leave but guess what?Something is preventing them to leave!And guess what else,it's their trauma materialised!But

          
        nope,they proceed on accusing each other of being liars that need to be executed.And despite the characters finding out later what the problem is,they still remain in the village because they are too afraid to face reality while some others do leave but we don't get to see what was it that they feared. Just poof!No problems whatsoever while the MCs had to struggle all the way to accept who they are.It doesn't even show what happens after.

Art(7/10)

The animation was okay most of the time.There were some moments were it was transparent but it was alright.In my opinion the characters looked a bit to young and cute for this genre.The monsters really creeped me out though,they looked realistic sometimes and more to say...disgusting?In some ways I'm surprised made by the same people who worked on Another and sometimes I'm not...

Sound(7/10)

It was average too,I liked the opening but the other sound aspects didn't really stand out.

Character(6/10)

Although some of the characters developed quite nicely,most others weren't given too much attention.Like Lion and Nanko,I wanted to know their stories!Part of characters were relatable and I liked how it turned out for Mitsumune and Masaki and the bus driver's story moved me a bit.Heck,Lovepon was annoying and loud but she was captivating the attention of viewers!

Enjoyment(6/10)

I would've given it a 7 if it had a better conclusion but the ending felt very rushed. I couldn't even remember half of the characters' faces,much less their names.As I said,some moments were indeed catchy but a big part of it was so-so.

Overall(6/10)

My apologies,Mayoiga,but you will probably leave my memory as fast as those guys catched the train.
If you don't have anything to do,it's a acceptable watch but it's better to leave it at the bottom of the list.(Although good to fall asleep to when you want nightmares)
        

Helpful


read more
