      
    This review contains no major spoilers, and probably not even minor spoilers, everyone's definition on a minor spoiler is debatable. 

I am writing this review because I feel bad for this anime. My ratings and opinion are not raised because of the hate this anime gets, just to be clear.
When this anime finished on all anime forums and websites people were hating on it. Saying it's the worst anime they've seen. It eventually turned into a "bandwagon" of hate. While this of course is not the best anime in the world, it is far from worst.

Story: 7/10
The story is good, I really like the idea

          
        and concept of it, that's what drove me to watch it in the first place. I am usually not big on psychological anime, but the idea of it was enough to buy me into it. I rate it a 7/10 because I feel the story was not at it's maximum potential. Many spots it is hard to follow, but makes it clear later. Some people may like that, I'm not big on it. But I still think the story is an overall 7.

Art: 9/10
I usually dislike seeing CGI/3D in anime, with cars and such, but I felt it worked well enough in this anime. There are also other CGI things in it that I feel stood out a bit but maybe it was too much for them to draw it or something. The style is pretty generic/normal, which is 100% fine with  me. The backgrounds are full of detail and atmosphere which is what boosted it to a 9 for me

Sound: 8/10
Not too much to say about the sound, I don't remember any music from the anime, to be honest. I do remember the sound design in certain areas(don't want to spoil) was top notch and was done very very well. This area doesn't need to be extremely high for an enjoyable anime though.

Character: 5/10
In my opinion, a set of characters is usually what makes or break an anime to me. This anime did OK with characters, although I let it slide because it has a good excuse. There is 30 characters. There is not enough time to develop them. Even if it focused on just a few, it would feel like the others are pointless. I know that's still not a good excuse to not try harder on the characters but I think this time it doesn't hit the overall score as hard for me.

Enjoyment: 7/10
I got a lot of enjoyment out of this anime. My unwritten motto is basically something like "Nothing else matters in an anime as long as you enjoy it. The characters could be drawn like garbage, the music could be someone screaming in a kazoo for all I care, my enjoyment overthrows all other ratings". I expected a bit more from this anime as far as enjoyment, but I was not 'disappointed'.

Overall: 7/10
I do not regret watching this anime at all. I think it is worth the time to, especially since it's different and a good story idea. I think most of the hate is undeserved, and while I may have rated this anime a bit too high overall, I stick by it. I only recommend if the story interests you. But it most certainly doesn't deserve the hate it has gotten and is still getting.

Give it a shot and see for yourself before dismissing it so quickly because of the hate.

Helpful


read more
