      
    I was kind of looking forward to Mayoiga, I love horror/suspense and anime from my past experience has been able to do the genre some justice. Shows like Another and Death Note have always been some of my favorite animes and I really wanted more anime's like them to be released. So I was happy to welcome a new Horror/Suspense anime into the line up. But from the first episode Mayoiga showed that it was definitely not going to be anything like I thought...

Mayoiga has to be one of the BIGGEST disappointments in anime for me, I was doing some research before the anime aired

          
        and saw the plot was about a group of people seeking a place to start over and live their life again. That sounded pretty interesting to me and for the first 2 episodes it was. However once they got there and they started revealing the "secrets" behind this place I started laughing. I'm not gonna spoil the secrets incase you still (for some strange reason) want to give this anime a shot) but the plot had to be one of the most random and unorganized plots i've ever seen. The plot kept jumping back and forth between what their goals were and by the end of it all it was one giant mess. I honestly want to know what was going through their minds when they made the plot for this cause it made no sense whatsoever, it starts off good and quickly turns into a burning pile of trash.

The characters were the most uninteresting characters I have ever seen. NONE of them actually felt like humans, especially the main 2. You know they're boring when I had to search up both their names while writing this because I forgot. Mitsumune was one of the dullest and generic anime characters i've ever seen. The kid did not even seem human he had the exact reaction to everything and was so boring. The only reason I remember anything about his past is because it made me laugh so hard when we meet his "fear." (more on that later.) I honestly remember nothing about Masaki, she had importance in like one episode and besides that just kind of followed Mitsumune around like a puppy until the last few episodes. These characters were so boring and only played a role in the plot near the end of the anime.

The "Horror" of this anime was the best part of this anime. Not because it was scary or thrilling, but because it was so bad, it makes you laugh. These "beasts" we're suppose to be scared of are ridiculous and laughable. They're suppose to resemble something from their pasts that they're running from but nothing, not even the back stories, was scary or suspenseful. It was just a bunch of failures who failed once in life and decided "I want to start over instead of making an continuing on with their lives". Mitsumune had the saddest back story of them all, but the "monster" ruined it for me. It was so goofy looking that everytime I saw it instead of feeling sad about his past I could only laugh at how ridiculous it was.

Honestly, Don't watch Mayoiga. If you want horror / suspense you wont find it here. Don't watch it if you want intersting characters, because you wont find it here. However, You want a good laugh at how poorly made an anime can be? You've come to the right place. The only reason i'd recommend this is just to sit down with your buddies and have a good chuckle at how bad this anime is.
        

Helpful


read more
