      
    I started watching this by thinking as everybody that its a anime about mass killing or etc...
but well that isn't and honestly i am not disappointed.

A lot of people complain about the open ending that nothing was explained and i just ask my self? did you even watch the anime? every thing was clearly explained...

the anime just offers you a nice life message and that what i liked about it the most
yes the anime is not a "hit" and nothing but average (well better then average because average anime has no message that you can take with your self after watching).

the story 9\10:
well i can't

          
        explain the story without spoiling so
if you just ignore the first episodes and the fact that they are quite bad, they bad but nothing so horrible i already watched a lot of bad anime and the beginning of this one wasn't in that case.
anyway the story is about what the nanaki village and what is the nanaki(the monsters). and the viewer as well as the characters are learning this with every episode at the final episode you know what is the village and for what reason he exist,
as well as what are the nanaki.

characters 7\10;
well most of the characters are annoying espacially at the begining 5-6 first ep.
but after that it becomes part of the story and i related to the mc so the annoying character didn't bother me anymore.
there is a past revealing parts and they were quite good.

Enjoyment 8\10:
I enjoyed this anime quite a lot especially due to the fact that the anime had a nice meaning behind it.

Overall 8\10:
The anime isn't horrible and i guess isn't for anyone
it is a nice mystery anime but its not about murdering people and death, 
like the anime-"Another".

that anime is to give you a message for life a really strong message that probably every one already know but that still had a good reminder. 
and for that reason i cant say ever that this is shit anime.
        

Helpful


read more
