      
    Well, this anime was an absolute trainwreck. Honestly, i've never expected so much of a series and have it so completely fail to meet even my lowest expectations. 

Story (5/10) The premise really drew me in, as it stood out from all the other anime airing in its season. Wide range of eccentric characters? Lots of room for character development? Mysterious abandoned village? Sign me the fuck up!
Unfortunately, it completely missed the mark. The plot points were all of a sudden just slapped in our faces, along with weird sudden flashbacks and shitty development. Literally every scene in this goddamn anime was just the characters

          
        arguing with each other then PLOT POINT and then the character arguing about the plot point like??? okay

Art (6/10) Unremarkable. The art did it's job, it didn't really impress me that much, however I added a few points just for the animation of the Nanakis. It did a pretty good job of portraying the horrific grandma, and even made the toy penguin look pretty terrifying. 

Sound (5/10) The sound kind of reminded me of Another, which I personally didn't like. It ramped up the drama sometimes, but it kind of got stale for me after a few episodes (however I know quite a few people liked the soundtrack, this is just my subjective opinion)

Character (2/10) Oh man. This is where they fucked up BIG TIME. I have NEVER seen such a huge collection of annoying characters in my history of watching anime. They possessed no fucking common sense, instead of sitting down and talking about how to deal with things in a reasonable manner, they all panic and argue. The main character Mitsumune was incredibly annoying (although he did become more interesting after his backstory was revealed, HOWEVER considering his backstory I thought he'd be a lot more messed up? Not going to spoil but he's got to have some major identity-related issues which i hoped they'd explore in the anime but they didn't. There was absolutely no/minimal character development involved - everyone stayed idiotic until the very end. 

Enjoyment (3/10) God knows how I stayed watching until the very end. The only parts of the anime I enjoyed were the scenes where the characters experienced suffering. I held out hope that at least half of the cast would die a horrible death befitting their incredible stupidity, however alas, it was in vain. How dare they build up such a cast of annoying characters and not even give us the satisfaction of them dying slowly and painfully. 

Overall (4/10) This anime drew us all in with an interesting premise, however completely shat on it's own potential. How they fucked up such a promising series, I'll never know. 
        

Helpful


read more
