       
    Mayoiga has probably been the strangest ride of my life, and no, I'm not making a pun here on how it literally starts with a bus ride. Before I begin my review, I'll say this. Mayoiga is the type of anime which is great when you have other people to discuss it with, but not if you're watching this alone. It's best to go into this blind without any spoilers. And don't try to take it seriously. While I'll try hard to not spoil anything, I'd recommend that you go watch the anime before reading the review, and don't do it alone. If you're simply

          
        curious about it, but not enough to go watch it due to the low rating, then read on.

I won't waste time here with the summary. Frankly speaking, I believe that Mayoiga is intentionally bad. Otherwise, I'll be unable to comprehend why anyone managed to make a mess like this. Especially considering the fact that the director of Mayoiga also directed one of my favorite anime, Shirobako.

Mayoiga's plot doesn't really make much sense. It's a mystery anime at heart, with the craziest characters and situations. You'll literally go what the heck many times while watching this. As I've already said, it's not meant to be taken very seriously, but enough to make you pay attention to everything. I swear, the amount of wild theories people came up with while it was airing would be enough to make an entire book. 

With a cast as large as 30, it's not really hard to see that it's impossible for Mayoiga to develop them all within 12. The two main characters would probably be Mitsumune and Masaki, but you could also make an argument here that the others were equally important, but let's just consider those two as the main ones here. Despite what I say, Masaki herself is a mysterious and shady character in the beginning, and Mitsumune's the type you'll most likely hate, with his nice guy and naive attitude. There are quite a few other important characters as well, Speedstar, Valkana, Koharun, Lion, Lovepon (miss execution), and a few others whose names I can't remember. 

The sound in Mayoiga is quite decent. Nothing noticeable, but it did help to set the mood, so it served its purpose well. The animation is average, nothing great, and could've been better, but it was good enough.

Mayoiga is probably at its best when you just sit there wondering what the heck happened, and try to come up with theories as to explain what exactly took place, and share it with others, only for it to be blown away next episode. While I certainly enjoyed it, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, except for the reason I've mentioned above. It's unpredictable to the point where you'll have no idea what will it come up with next, and it fills with a weird feeling of wanting to find out. An 8 is probably too generous of a score for this anime, but hey, I believe the main purpose of anime is to entertain, and Mayoiga certainly managed to do that.





Helpful


read more
