        
    Anime may not be able to walk on your behalf but can make someone surprised by something unexpected. Yes, this is Mayoiga. I was quite excited to make a review about this anime, please read slowly and this is my view objectively. WARNING : MAY CONTAIN SPOILER.

What's the first time I say? It cant be believed! Well, it may sound like an exaggeration but this is the real situation. When you see this anime, you look, you see the synopsis or watch the preview. Moreover with mystery, predictable, nor may you and me, must have been quite challenged and put it into your watch list.

          
        With Another or Higurashi whos capable of attracting the attention of many people. You put this anime with very high expectations.

I'll first start of the story, the story is the main problem of this anime. Telling about the village are missing, we could see some early episodes was the introduction stage about situations and characters. My first assumption is development is quite slow, probably rather too wordy. But increasingly there began to emerge a variety of issues and a few episodes, I still wondering about my confusion on this anime. Will be brought where the story? Very boring. That's wrong here, me, and (perhaps) we were all wrong with expecting a creepy story, tense or foster a sense of excitement, as we watch anime "Another". So my first assumption didnt last long, when I tried to watch closely and be careful. My second assumption is my decision was wrong. This anime wants to make the audience follow their progress slowly, not rush. I realize that this anime producer successfully twist my mind and finally presented things that sped away from my estimation. It turns out the story is not that simple packaging.

But I cant dismiss that progress is slow, I was a bit annoyed theyre always debating things that are not necessary. But instead of all the events that happened, there is a debate and misunderstanding that leads us to understand their characters. Very obvious, with the disappearance of their friend, they dont understand each other and the things they didnt expect to happen, it makes them depressed and inner conflict begins. Finally, we can understand their character. And their characters were, unwittingly, is key to the root of the problems they face and the secret behind the Nanaki village. Honestly, I was a little regret not trying to enjoy the plot. Because my mind might have considered ugly about this anime. But I take that back. Merger of drama-mystery is very nice! Remember the first time theyre in the bus and do a self-introduction? They reason arent much different, essentially those who follow the tour wasnt just avid fans of mystery, but they really try to live a new life and escape from their past. This reminds me of Aoi Bungaku, from taking place setting, story and atmosphere are different. But the point is the same, telling us about the issues facing them and when they tried to escape and live a new life. Fear and regret haunt wherever they go. Curiosity will be answered little by little in each episode, the lost village, traditional songs, this is the mystery. Not a ghost or anything physical shock. Story : 9/10

Next, there is no need comment about the art, coloring or effect. The characters is described very cute, and quite creepy monster! Especially of monsters whos attacking lovepyon, if I pay attention, movement feels real. Well, I actually really like, and I think there is no problem about this. Because, basically every anime has a different style. Picture: 10/10

Third, talk about sound, I think the opening and closing songs are good. Instrumental and lyrics are very supportive. The opening song reminds me a little bit with Subete F ga ni naru, compared to show something creepy, but the depiction of the characters themselves. Real despair. Sound : 8/10

Speaking of characters, is bad? No. They played very well at all. Because so many of the characters in this anime, initially quite hard to remember their names apart before they call each other names. Can be seen, so many characters with diverse characters. There are like prostitutes, taciturn, grumpy, and so forth. But perhaps of all the characters are quite caught my attention was lovepyon and not the protagonist, mitsumune. She is very sweet, but with a different physical nature,she is creepy and autism. Always talk about the execution, execution and execution. Fortunately their acting and actions unsatisfactory, if not, I would feel bored with the progress of the story is fairly slow. This is the appeal of this anime, their character. Their characters feel real and make it more alive. Characters: 10/10

As of my exposition above, my view of this anime is not bad, but Im quite satisfied. Progress was slow, made sense of curiosity, and others. Let me emphasize here that try to enjoy and feel the sensation. Although the mystery was not outstanding but still make us curious. Enjoyment : 9/10
        

Helpful


read more
