       
    The Lost Village is a rather unique show. Featuring a large cast of thirty named characters, acclaimed director Tsumotu Mizushima (Shirobako, Girls und Panzer, Dai Mahou Touge) and a similarly acclaimed writer Mari Okada (Ano Hana, Toradora, Nagi no Asakura); to call The Lost Village ambitious would be an understatement. In this review I intend to explain what makes The Lost Village brilliant whilst also explaining what makes this show as polarizing as it appears to be.

The Lost Village presents itself as a horror show. A bunch of kids and young adults board a bus to a mysterious village in order to rebuild their lives.

          
        On the way large there are constant references to suicide, cannibalism, and torture. An incredibly generic thriller horror opening. Typically this kind of show with a large initial cast fall into that brand of horror where most of the cast is 'spent' in either a gorey or a psychologically unnerving manner. That would normally be what draws people to the show initially, for example Higurashi. At the start of the season that is very much what I expected from The Lost Village: an over the top horror show with some incredibly silly deaths, basically Another. I couldn't have been more wrong.

The Lost Village is a comedy show. It is a comedy show set in an amateur studentish horror show. Most anime comedy revolves around overt gags. You have a show, be it a comedy show or merely a show that utilizes a comedy, and in it a joke is presented to you. The joke is then commented on by the cast, usually a 'straight-man character'. Obviously this varies, from Key adaptation's very single skit focussed approaches to comedy, to Jojo's Bizarre Adventure's approach of having ridiculous things be ridiculous but playing it entirely straight within the show itself. However, none of these is how The Lost Village approaches comedy. The humour in The Lost Village is instead more meta-structural. Playing with genre or anime-in-general expectations by 'looking' at the 'correct way' of doing things and then doing the opposite. 

All thirty-something characters are all one dimensional flat characters with maybe one or two traits to each of them. You have the meowing gun fan, the earnest execution lover, that incredibly thirsty boy, and that's a joke. In a lesser show this would be atrocious. An entire cast of unlikable bland characters.  Yet the show constantly draws attention to not only how ridiculous the cast is, but also how genuine the cast is. That meowing gun lover will always be meowing, always will be in love with guns, and that is just their character. No tragic backstory, even when brought up, will explain that away like a traditional horror thriller would. The meowing gun fan isn't meowing because she was bullied as a kid, nor is the execution lover into execution as some form of vengeance over abuse.  Instead, The Lost Village's tragic backstories exist merely to poke fun at tragic backstories. To poke fun at itself, and to bring genuine laughter to it's audience.

Almost everything in the show revolves around taking it's horror thrilling premise and ruining it. Any tense moment will be butchered by traditionally bad shot composition. All movement in a scene being off camera, the focus of a scene being completely absent and the 180 degree rule being ignored, or just putting props in the way of the character talking for the sheer purpose of taking all tension that 'should' be in the scene away. Or perhaps, instead of using bad shot composition, what will ruin a scene is the cast just getting bored. Rather than grouping together, or splitting up in order to find the plot the vast majority of the time the cast state that they should be doing that and then immediately get bored and distracted. The show is completely consistent in it's contrivances. It's running jokes continue running and even reach climactic highs as the cast accidentally run across and have Plot happen to them.

The Plot in The Lost Village is a Plot of nothingness. Since it takes so long for the cast to actually 'get' anywhere what could typically have been a hamfisted appreciation of trauma instead takes an entire season to get going and then get's 'resolved' in bored characters speaking verbal shitposts at each other. These conversations about nothing, or about something important before getting distracted account for around half of all that happens in the show. It's ridiculous. 

Yet, even with all this ridiculous nothingness going on, The Lost Village has some genuine moments. These genuine moments, whilst laughed at in some form of another most, but not all, of the time, are well done. A character dealing with or coming to terms with their trauma is not laughed at. The traumas that the Plot of the show explores are not the jokes in and of themselves. The Lost Village cares deeply for it's cast of sometimes absurd archetypes, and sometimes oddly genuine people. In caring for them it cares deeply for it's audience. Genuine struggles are treated genuinely. There's no gratuitous abuse, and the only violence that's a joke in and of itself tends to revolve around The Big Bads being CG and terrible.

It would be easy to look at what The Lost Village does and compare it to check lists of good and bad writing and decide it is definitely of the former. But to consider the show bad because of this would be doing it a disservice. The Lost Village takes traditionally bad writing and direction and instead makes it good. The Lost Village uses the implicit 'joke' in stuff like The Room or Birdemic and makes it explicit. If you buy into the inconsistent consistency of it's premise The Lost Village is a precious show. An unmissable and unique experience. However, such an experience may be hard to get into, for by using traditionally bad techniques can be a major turn off making it impossible for one to get immersed in the fun.
        

Helpful


read more
