      
    Apparently, Mayoiga is categorized as a mystery anime, but the real mystery is figuring out what the fuck was going on half the time, and not really in a good way. One of the most talked about anime of Spring 16, Mayoiga deceived whatever target audiences it was trying to lure in; at first it seemed like a group of weirdos assimilating into an uncharted society, then it seemed to be a murder mystery, but really it was a psychological horror involving freaky CG monsters.

Oh.

Mayo-egg starts off with thirty Redditors getting on a bus headed for the middle of nowhere, so they can start new

          
        lives in an uncharted village. Fucking millennials these days. And I almost wanted to drop the show after the first five minutes, because they were spent on introducing each character, one by one, as if anyones expected to remember them. And theyre ALL tropes. I get that only a fucking crazy idiot would get on this magic school bus to hell, but very few are actually insane everyone else is just an anime trope. The guy who raps all the time. The guy who eats food all the time. The potential serial murderer who doesnt talk. Is this supposed to be some big joke?

Apparently it is, actually. A lot of people have concluded that Mayoigas general lack of seriousness and incredibly trope-y characters make this a comedy series rather than some horrific drama. So uh when exactly was I supposed to laugh? Hurr hurr, this guys getting chased by a giant boob monster! Alright, yeah, thats pretty weird. Anything else? Cuz people taking silly situations really seriously isnt a very uncommon thing in anime, specifically bad anime. Maybe I just dont enjoy subtle humor in general, because I was only interested when the really crazy shit was happening. All hail Lovepon. But otherwise, I wasnt amused by the mob mentality of the villagers or their dumb conversations and theories.

I do believe this couldve at least been improved easily, though. They shouldve reduced the headcount significantly. This statement is a small spoiler, but only one person dies. With the amount of characters, its no surprise that most people expected a weekly massacre. (RIP to the guy on /r/anime who made a status chart for this exact reason.) But no, everyone sticks around and pops up every now and then (then being maybe once every three episodes if theyre lucky) to give their amazing (read: fucking annoying) one-liner, then back to filler hell they go. Keep the characters that actually have presence. No one cares about the guy who talks about eating, or Yuuna, or Yuuna, or Yuuna. Having less characters would at least give an excuse to have more CG monsters. 

If anything, violence wouldve made the show more entertaining. Or maybe if this turned into a huge game of Town of Salem. Ever played that? Its a game where the townspeople have to find everyone evil and hang them, or the evil people have to kill all the townspeople. Watching everyone point fingers furiously and falsely killing off each other wouldve been a fun time for the whole family. But instead of a simple, entertaining show to watch while getting shit-faced drunk with your friends, Shirobakos director goes with people getting attacked by monsters created by their mental stress. You know, the classic.

I guess its one thing to be surprising, and Mayoiga is pretty interesting and creative with its concept, but its like mixing peanut butter with mac and cheese. Theyre both awesome on their own, but putting them together is strange and not very fun. Well be right back after this public service announcement.

[The author of this review recommends that you do not mix peanut butter with mac and cheese. It does not taste good. Thank you for your attention.]

Anyway, Im not really sure what this anime was supposed to be. If it was a drama, it was too wacky to take seriously. If it was a mystery, it didnt leave people guessing, just in a state of confusion. If it was a comedy, it simply wasnt funny enough. And if it was supposed to be all of them at once well, it sucked.

The art just kinda sucks. Thats it. Nothing is specifically bad about it, its just kinda mediocre because most of it is people standing or sitting around, talking. Facial expressions and camera angles dont do anything to help or harm it, but the lighting is pretty decent, as much of the show takes place during the night, so expect a lot of dimly lit rooms and campfires. Yeah, campfires. For roasting marshmallows, and sometimes witches. The CG is beyond jarring, its fucking hyper-realistic like were in a shitty creepypasta. But thats kinda the point and theyre consistent with it, so its good in a strange way? Quite an oddity, it is.

If this show had music, let me know. Cuz I sure as hell didnt notice anything. The OP is about average; the song has some heart but sounds cheaply produced; the mixing doesnt sound very even, and the instrumentation sounds lacking, somehow. But it has a good vocal melody, at least. The ED is a strange, but fitting song to close each episode with; its a soft acoustic ballad and its quite nice. I dont have anything to say about the voiceovers because of the sheer number, but whoever played the based goddess Lovepon is pretty good.

Did I enjoy Mayoiga? Eh. I didnt not enjoy it, save for the extremely slow start. But with a general lack of focus, I dont think it was a matter of not enjoying it, its just that there wasnt much to enjoy.

Story - 3/10
Art - 4/10
Sound - 3/10
Characters - 3/10
Enjoyment - 4/10
Craziness - EXECUTE!!!!/10
Overall - 4/10
Favorite character - Lovepon
Favorite episode - 6
Recommendation level - Low
        

Helpful


read more
