      
    I have seen bad anime and good anime come and go, but whenever a good anime is presented I am either disappointed or frustrated with the bandwagons attached to it. Luckily, Mayoiga is not one of these anime. Originally I gave Mayoiga a 1, but after removing parts of my ego there are some parts that make Mayoiga a bit more than a pathetic anime. This review will have no spoilers and the purpose is to convince you to rewatch or begin to watch Mayoiga.

Story: 
Mayoiga is about a group of isolationists that decide to move into a village so that they can restart their

          
        lives. Immediately we understand that this anime is about exiles and we discover why they are exiles exactly because none of them are memorable. The main hook of this anime is the mystery of the village. The romance isn't the strong suit and when the mystery is revealed I have a hard time understanding what is real and what is not real. Story is not the strong suit by far, but what makes it better than dreadful (2) is that it has a narrative in mind and does not forget important plot points to our main character's trauma. Despite this, you will often find that a large cast of characters would be difficult to work with in 12 episodes. (3)

Art:
Art is always a debatable category. I thought it was fine because it shows the defining characteristic of each character. When the art does not do this, it portrays average characters in a less than average story. Does this sound familiar? Mayoiga fits the horror-genre archetype! Since I do not want to reveal and spoilers, I will say that the CG at this time was terrifying and it fits perfectly with the mystery of the village. (6)

Sound:
I liked the opening and ending... only if they were for a different show. I find that the upbeat and sad nature of these songs do not define the show and although it serves to hype me for the next episode it does not hype me for the story or characters. The overall soundtrack has a bunch of ambiance that seems offsetting, yet it somehow fits when understanding what a train wreck this anime really is. The best song you will hear, however, is the hippopotamus song. (3)

Character:
The characters of this anime are generic and flat. I wasn't rooting for any of the characters except 2 of them: the female tour guide and the bus driver. The only thing to keep in mind is that literally all of these people are isolationists. We often define each of these characters for a trait that society deems immoral like we have a character that enjoys executions and another that enjoys killing. Those are the extreme examples, but some other examples are also beauty and unemployment. There are so many different people here that I could not tell what the point of Mayogia really was. (1)

Enjoyment:
I don't count my enjoyment to the overall score but I will say that I was enjoyed enough to finish the 12 episode run. I never felt like sleeping through the show at any given point and I think its best to treat this show as a comedy rather than an actual mystery. (5)

If you have time in your hands before the next season starts than I recommend checking out Mayoiga to pass the time. Just know that you will gain minor enjoyment and a loss of time.
        

Helpful


read more
