      
    This will be my first review for a series on this site. Despite having seen a fair share of anime, and in many different styles; I've been very hesitant to write a review because I've been afraid of being biased and simply giving out a score because I enjoyed something. Enjoyment is a very subjective term, as I may have personally found something interesting, while others may have loathed it. But today, I set that all aside: and announce that I will attempt to approach all reviews from an objective standpoint. Noting on a few things a title did well, as well as areas where

          
        it is lacking. 

(I.E. I want to review things critically, instead of whining about something I disliked, or mindlessly praising things that happen to catch my fancy)

One thing to note, I feel every category, or rating for a particular show: starts out at a 5/10. This is NOT a bad thing: for reviews 5/10 = MEDIOCRE and for a series as a whole 5/10  = AVERAGE from then on they gain and lose points from there. This keeps one from being too biased, and giving high scores based on one's enjoyment, which is flawed reasoning in my mind. You can enjoy a terrible show or movie, while still recognizing it was a failure on a critical level.


Story: (3/10 = Poor)

The concept seemed interesting at first. A bunch of characters with pasts they would like to forget, as they start over in a new place. Key phrase here: AT FIRST. For a twelve episode title, juggling the development of so many characters (there are at least 6) leads to rushed pacing, nonsensical reasoning, unanswered questions, and not surprisingly: info dump sessions where exposition is told to the viewer as opposed to being shown. And for a mystery series, this makes one's overall enjoyment take a dive towards the middle of the series. 

Positive: Some of the past "traumas" of characters are sympathetic, and the initial discovery of The Village and its state, sets itself up for at least a somewhat interesting take on the horror and mystery genre within anime.

Negative: The writing is a complete mess. The script for characters is filled with plenty of vague comments, ambiguous questions, and sometimes characters will outright dodge a question with a meek and timid response. It also goes nowhere, as there too many characters to develop. The pacing is very slow, despite its few episodes, nothing of note related to the central premise is explored or mentioned in any meaningful way. The ending of the series is also very cliche to say the least. Everyone's problems are solved, Hooray! And felt more like an info-dump and plot convenience hack than anything meaningful. It's very forgetful because they do not try to innovate on the genre, but merely seem to go for a "safe" ending. 



ART: (1/10 = Pathetic)

I don't feel the animation is of any note quality for this series. The art style is very mediocre for a title in 2016, and I feel as time goes on: this will age terribly. The character designs were quite bland, and for there to be a plethora of characters, this is bad thing. The only unique design worth noting is Lion-san. The males that serve as background characters, all look somewhat alike, and the same goes for the females. The "monster" if you would call it, is also comprised of CG animation: which wasn't a bad thing at first, as CG animation in anime is often off-putting and jarring to the eyes, so it fits the genre in an ironic sense. However, I don't feel there was any real effort going into the design of the "monster" after seeing it in its full state, (which is dependent on the character) it's a bland sight to see. 



SOUND: (1/10 = Pathetic)

I will mention the opening in ending theme here after briefly discussing the OST. Regarding that last topic, there is nothing of note here. They use about three generic sounding songs with bland instruments for the soundtrack, and always at the same places. Mystery intensifies: Insert mysterious song. Horror begins: insert this scary song. Conflict arises: insert this conflict song. Not to mention none of these are very good. They don't serve to pull the viewer into the scene, they feel more like a distraction, as they do not know when to exactly input the song. Sometimes, an OST track will begin while characters are saying something meaningful to the plot, which is distracting and annoying. Or other times, no sound can add a "creepy" effect, and they ruin it by inputting a generic sounding song to add to the affect, which ironically takes away from it.

The opening is nothing special. Generic faces of the characters, with a very uninspired credits sequence beside their faces. Watching it makes me feel it was rushed, as the particular song they chose has nothing to do with the anime in my opinion. It should be an off-putting song to get us into the feel for this anime, not a pretty melody. The ending was also lacking for the same reason. I did like the instrument they used for it, but again: the ending sequence is the same lazy material as the opening.


CHARACTERS: (2/10 = Dreadful)

As I mentioned above, there are quite a few characters (introduced via the first episode on the bus) and we get an introduction to all of them, including a glimpse at their personality through the name they have chosen to go by. As the series goes on: a majority of them become background characters, or simply serve the purpose of creating cheap conflict through misunderstandings. If you are new to the mystery genre, you will find the main character quite frustrating. AS they are usually the most idiotic in the series, to give the mystery and drama an added affect. With that being said, the main character is a simple and weak character. Just as the rest of the cast that are relevant. The thing I found odd about these characters is that they say that they want to start life over, but come packaged with the same attitudes and terrible personalities that made them leave reality in the first place. None of them display any actual growth by the end of the series, it's really just more of the same. And as the series goes on: the plot and run-time sadly focuses on the main character, and a female he's latched onto for no reason whatsoever other than a vague impression he had on her. Hardly any of the other characters are explored, aside from a brief flashback of a few individual traumatic pasts.



ENJOYMENT: (2/10 = Dreadful)

I did not enjoy this anime. I felt the obligation to finish it purely because I started it. I also felt the need to write this review because I care enough to do so. I did not go into this series hating it, I felt it was average (5/10) after the first three episodes. But the consistent issues involving plot, characters, sound, and overall feel drove my anticipation for this anime to drop week by week, episode by episode. I dislike when there is hardly anything happening. And for a mystery and horror themed anime: this dislike is magnified as the story is the most important aspect in such a series.  



OVERALL: (1/10 = Pathetic or Appalling)

If you are looking for a mystery series to pass the time, look elsewhere. You will find nothing but frustration and info dumps in this title. Aside from that, I would like to restate the above: this series started out as a 5/10 = AVERAGE and from then on as the episodes continued, it lost points from me on a critical level. This show also failed to entertain me. I've been reading reviews on this site for awhile now before viewing a show, and I find myself never ACTUALLY getting an answer as to whether or not I should watch something. I am telling you now, this is a terrible anime. It does nothing to innovate on the genre it is in, and avoids exploring its mystery through compelling dialogue and scenes, and instead relies on simply telling the viewer how things are, with a "Because I said so" attitude. That with poor artwork, characters, and sound, makes this title very unworthy of a re-watch in my case, or your time, my dear reader. 


Thank you for reading this, if you found it helpful and didn't do a TL;DR


Helpful


read more
