      
    Welcome to "so bad it's actually funny"  the anime. Sort of.

It's hard to explain just how bad Mayoiga actually is without seeing it with your own eyes, but if I were to use one word to describe it then it'd be "amateurish". It feels like both the scriptwriting and the directing were done by a group of 14-year-olds for some school film project or something. It's like one of those second-rate western horror flicks that you solely watch for shits and giggles, except put in an anime format for even greater effect. You might be familiar with the 2012 anime "Another": it was an

          
        anime which was supposed to be a horror/mystery show yet it became more known for being an unintentional comedy due to how hilariously bad it was at creating suspense and because of how stupid its death scenes were. Guess what; Mayoiga and Another share the same director... and as a result Mayoiga is basically the same deal all over again, though with a lot less casualties in it this time. Actually that's not entirely fair; Mayoiga is even worse.

Within the first 5 minutes of the very first episode, we're introduced to *30* new characters, all with their own self-introductions. I have seriously never seen an anime before which overwhelms you to such an extent right from the start with so many new names to learn. How is anyone supposed to remember them all? Long story short, you won't. Don't even try. And besides, as you'll find out, the characters are all terrible anyway so spare yourself the effort.

Basically, the story starts out with a bus filled with 30 unfamiliar people bound for a mysterious rural settlement called "Nanaki Village", a place which supposedly cannot be found on any map for unknown reasons. The purpose of the trip is supposedly for all the passengers to start over with new lives for themselves due to their respective personal circumstances. After some troubles, they arrive at the village only to find out that it's abandoned, and soon enough strange things start happening around them. Some people disappear whilst exploring the village, and mysterious claw marks dripping with blood are found in the forest. This all has the setup for an obvious horror story where people will get killed from the shadows or something along those lines, which would have been the obvious solution to the problem of the overwhelming size of the character cast: I.E: by killing off the majority of them. But strangely enough that's not what happens.

Instead, Mayoiga descends down a spiral of "wtf am I watching" as the characters first turn on each other only to then keep changing their minds on who's guilty of what every 2 minutes, and absurd supernatural events seemingly start to occur with "monsters" straight out of Disneyland appearing everywhere. It's one big scrambled mess which barely makes any sense, but above all it's completely impossible to take seriously. I find it hard to believe that you're really supposed to be scared or intrigued by this, because the only thing it ever makes you do is laugh out loud at how unbelievably stupid and nonsensical the things that are happening are. And while the story admittedly does start to make sense towards the end, at that point you don't even care anymore.

What really makes Mayoiga stand out though is the character cast itself. I don't really know how to put this other than that it's absolutely *horrible*. Like record levels of awful. I've already mentioned the huge problem of it being impossible to remember the names of more than a handful of them, but on top of that not a single one of them is likable. At all. They all behave like complete and utter retards from start to finish, blatantly changing their opinions whenever someone else brings up any new piece of information, they all have needlessly clich and bland backstories which you don't even want to hear in the first place, and they're just plain annoying to watch. They're completely incapable of handling the situation they find themselves in and they act paranoid beyond belief for almost no reason. I guess you could argue that a group of people who think that running away from society by joining some shady bus trip to a rural village probably aren't the smartest people to begin with, but still. That sounds more like a bad excuse than anything else.

The MC is a weak, gullible boy called Mitsumune who feels like the most unsuitable person imaginable to be the protagonist of a horror/mystery show, and he just ends up coming off as annoying more often than not. Worst of all though, there's this one psychopathic girl called Lovepon who does nothing but desperately yell the word "Execute!" at any given moment, and is one of the most obnoxious characters I've ever seen. She reminds me of Nina Einstein from Code Geass a lot (protip: that's not a good thing). She wants to kill everyone for the slightest suspicious move, yet everyone else seems to trust her instincts completely above anyone else who says otherwise. Like really? Can't you like see that this girl is completely mentally unstable? Why are you going along with her as if she's reliable or something? I seriously don't get it. Who's more stupid: the idiot or the people who actually believe in her? In any case the entire cast are basically cardboard cutouts of various common anime tropes, with their specific traits cranked up to the max but their IQ dragged down to under 50. There is absolutely nothing to make the viewers feel any sympathy or connection to them, and as a result you just end up not caring about what happens to them. There is basically no depth or character development at all. Yes, we get a lot of tragic backstories from them spoon-fed to us, but those are all so incredibly bland and generic that it doesn't actually help their cause much to speak of. Rather it just ends up feeling like a waste of screen time.

So as far as being a horror/mystery goes, Mayoiga is in my mind one of the worst anime ever made. However, there is one saving grace for this show, albeit an unintentional one. And that is quite simply that it's actually pretty funny. Sure it's for all the wrong reasons, but either way the sheer amount of stupidity in the scriptwriting results in some comedic genius. The characters consistently do the most idiotic things that will catch you off guard and just make you laugh at how dumb they are. And don't even get me started on the so-called "horror" elements of this show. Just... just see for yourselves and you'll see what I mean; they look so ridiculously dumb it's hilarious. And because of that, the actual entertainment value of this anime is actually decent despite it being awful in basically all other categories, hence why I'm still generous enough to give it a 4 in the end. As for whether being "so bad it's funny" is enough of a motivation to actually watch the show though... well that probably just comes down to your sense of humor. Maybe it will, maybe it won't. Only one way to find out. Mayoiga is not an anime you laugh with. It's an anime you laugh at.
        

Helpful


read more
