      
    For as far as i've seen not many people liked Mayoiga , also the score isn't very high which was why I dropped this anime two times before actually giving it a chance. I think that it is very underrated, and of course not many people liked it because it is so different than other animes and gives off a sort of bad not intentional comedy feeling, but you should give it a chance and look at it with an open mind. It should have a bigger score than 5.8 . I decided to watch it because I ran out of horror animes to watch.

          
        I'd like to say that this in fact is NOT a horror anime, it's not scary, it's not creepy, it's not bloody, so it was kind of a huge let down. Story is all over the place. I liked the first idea, group of people who don't know each other are going to a place where they can start a new life, when they arrive no one is there, strange things start to happen etc. It excels in creating an eerie mood through audiovisuals. Settings are mysterious and gives off bad vibes, I enjoyed that mysterious feeling. That was cool, that could've been a good  story. I strongly connect this anime with a popular show "Lost" , and these two are very similar, which is why I liked this anime. The main character is pretty small and weak, filled with bright hope and hero feelings, which is very familiar to us because it's so cliche. You could say that the whole group are bunch of complete idiots who have so many shit crazy ideas and jump to conclusions so fast it makes you question humanity. The ending, the whole thing about "monsters" was so bad I planned on dropping it for the third time. But despite that I found this anime really interesting, it's that kind of anime that you can't just leave when you start watching, so you finish it in one sitting because you just have to see what happens next. It definitely doesn't deserve all the hate. But you should watch it ,see for yourselves and decide how you liked it. I give it overall score 8.
        

Helpful


read more
