      
    I would like to personally thank all who have decided to read this review. It is my first one posted to My Anime List; and, coming from a lifelong anime fan, you can be sure that this series had a very *special* impact on me, such that it served as a personal summons to this forum that I- for some reason- had not yet registered to after all this time. For that, Mayoiga, I thank you. A well-established anime fan should not go his whole life without becoming a part of the MAL community, and I am truly grateful to this trainwreck of a series

          
        for bringing me here. 

I started watching Mayoiga on Crunchyroll after watching this week's episode of Evil or Live. I had also finished School Live! the previous week and, not really being in the mood to break away from my seinen spree to start on something like a romance, I picked this series out of 3 or 4 I bookmarked from Crunchyroll's Seinen category. I saw the 3 out of 5 star rating and was quite skeptical (as I've found that, in most cases, Crunchyroll users are pretty reliable on their ratings, especially in regards to its Seinen selection), and I rarely bother with anything with less than four stars. Alas, it seems that fewer and fewer horror series are being released every year, and with some extra time off work, I decided to give this a shot.

I soon came to regret it, thoroughly. I actually started to fall asleep on the first episode, and after seeing the 20th or so character's introduction, I had my doubts over whether or not any particular character would get a thorough backstory, given the series' short length (12 episodes). As a rule of thumb, any notable character should receive at least half an episode dedicated to depth, with main characters deserving a full episode for this, along with gradual development over the series in its entirety. In my eyes, a cast of 30 or so characters sharing 12 episodes meant many characters were gonna get killed off or, in the worst case scenario, a few characters getting mary-sued with the rest pitifully neglected. 

I wasn't wrong about this; the main character is the most obnoxious example of a gary-stu I've probably ever seen in an anime, and I've seen many gary-stu's in all mediums of entertainment! He's overwhelmingly kind, dumb as a nail, bland in design and personality, and couldn't work comedy out of a run-of-the-mill ecchi scene if his face actually got buried ribcage-deep in breasts. He gravitates towards an equally stereotypical mary-sue heroine, who, comes complete with the whole blush-cry-and-run eccentricity every time said gary-stu says anything nice to her. I've been sober for 3 months now and just watching any conversation between the two had me thinking about scotch or, at the very least, a flathead screwdriver buried 2 inches deep in my left eye socket. 

None of the characters are actually enjoyable; besides maybe the fat guy, because he fits the fat-guy trope to a capital T. Like one reviewer before me described, all he does the whole series is eat chips, whine, and sleep. Every character fits a common anime trope in some obnoxious fashion. Mayoiga's cast includes the overly-serious glasses-wearing male, the boy-crazy highschool girl, the annoying romantic couple, the quiet borderline-murderous male, the yandere, the middle-aged slutty woman with big boobs, the misunderstood social butterfly, the older male with a dead child and regrets, and- the one I personally despised the most- the moe-fanged action girl with a brainwrenchingly annoying habit of using cat-related puns (i.e., "Let's wait for meow"). 

The plot jumps around so fast that you will probably miss something important if you look away for a few seconds to respond to a text. I remember needing to rewind on numerous occasions to catch details which were actually somewhat important to the plot. I tend to take forever watching series because I rewind a lot in order to catch the details, and in most cases I find that I never really miss anything important by doing this. This wasn't the case for Mayoiga; most times I rewinded, I found that I would have, indeed, missed important details if I simply pressed on. Very few series call for this level of attention, and a haphazard series like Mayoiga certainly shouldn't require a laser focus to take in. What's worse, none of the characters were really ever developed. There was an episode right in the middle of the series that crammed several characters' backstories together before abruptly dropping back into the climax of the plot.  

The series is also complete with numerous utterly pointless scenes confusingly mixed into ones that are actually critical to the plot. You can tell when the animators are trying to fill screentime; it's obvious. There is a scene where my favorite moe action girl after stares at the trunk of a tree and has a mental breakdown as the camera slowly zooms in on its bark, before she goes flying in terror through the woods behind her. It is finally explained after a few scenes that she saw a giant hornet coming out of the tree. I didn't know whether or not to laugh hysterically or facepalm at the sight of this. 

If you're thinking of watching this series for some fanservice, given some of the characters actually being kinda cute (the one thing going for this series is the few non-vanilla characters actually being aesthetically pleasing), you'll be disappointed. For a seinen series there actually isn't much fanservice at all. There's a random instance of this early on where, when the yandere is just as randomly assaulting the protagonist male in the river, you can see her bra through her shirt for a second and literally nothing comes of it. The protagonist blushes and she kinda just rolls off of him; no funny exhange, no awkward scramble, nothing. It was like the animators decided to toss in a tidbit to better match the series up with its rating without really planning it through. 

If you really sit down and focus on the series, you'll get a migraine and probably wind up very confused by the end of most episodes. If you watch it with about 70% attention span, you might be mildly amused by the series chaotically pingpong-balling around as the protagonist finds himself repeatedly torn between being taken advantage of by one of the other characters or being scolded by his best friend who might just be gay for him. Just an hour ago I was watching the central backstory episode, I walked away for 15 or so minutes to clean my cat's litterbox, and I returned to the forest burning down (or something) and the main female telling the main male that he should have more confidence in himself as she prepared to face a giant furby-like monster. Everything is crazy and it all moves so fast. It wasn't until after I finished that episode that I realized the terrors in the woods were probably giant yokai projecting themselves as the subjects of each character's fears, as actually following the series yielded no coherent explanation for what was going on. 

Watch this series at you peril if you are seeking a scary seinen series! However, if you watch it with expectations of it being funny due to how bad it is, you'll probably leave the experience satisfied and with a giggle or two. When I let go and started watching the absurdity of everything happening rather than trying to make sense of it, I actually had a pretty good time. 
        

Helpful


read more
