      
    Mayoiga is a show with a rocky start that continues down the path of mediocrity.

Story (5) - Perhaps the only thing Mayoiga had going for it was the story, and only for the first few episodes. The idea of a group trying to restart their lives in a new place is intriguing, and if it continued as slice of life, perhaps it would've stayed good. Unfortunately, it decided to take a 'mysterious, supernatural' turn for the worst. Thus spawning forced drama, boring and unfocused conversations between lifeless characters, and extreme absurdity.

Characters (4) - It tries to have a psychological element that just ends up falling

          
        flat on it's face. In order to have a successful psychological story, there needs to be characters that are fleshed out enough for the audience to understand their thoughts and feelings. Here, we have nothing but stereotypical sob stories for not one, but multiple characters that create no actual emotions.

Out of a cast of about 30 characters, half of which are forgotten shortly after the first few minutes of the first episode, only about 10 or so of them get proper backstories. And even then, they are crammed into short spouts of the show. For the majority of them, the backstory never even resurfaces! The main character is the only one fleshed out, and that's after getting half way through the show. He is perhaps the only one that gets the proper treatment, and even then the ending isn't conclusive. There is not closure, making the show feel even more of a waste than before.

Art (3) - Nothing extravagant. There is use of CG in parts that look trite and, quite honestly, ruin any possible immersion.

Sound (4) - Four is for Forgettable. Not a single track worth mentioning, not even the opening or ending.

Enjoyment (6) - Perhaps I'm being too kind, but there's a part of me that was entertained. After deciding not to take it too seriously, the show became something to laugh at. It should be watched with a drinking game attached. For instance, a shot every time a character goes crazy/says something irrational for no reason. Every time a CG blob appears. Every time there's a backstory. That's the only possible way to enjoy this garbage.

Overall (5) - This is not something to watch seriously. It's something to have fun with. Something to laugh at. Something that highlights all the things anime shouldn't be. There are too many characters, a poorly executed and dumb story, and a disappointing ending. The way to said ending is dull. There's no suspense or horror, and the psychological elements are anything but. It's a waste of time.
        

Helpful


read more
