      
    Mayoiga was probably one of the few anime that stood out to me in the Spring 2016 season. And I don't mean that in a positive way. Looking back at the show now, I think Mayoiga was the worst anime I have ever completed. What started off as a intriguing mystery show ended as a clusterf*ck of "wtf"s and "omg"s.

Story:

The story follows a cast of 30 (i think?) individuals as they travel to the mythical Nanaki Village on a bus tour. Each of the 30 individual all want to escape their previous lives and start fresh in Nanaki. When they eventually arrive at Nanaki Village

          
        they find it completely abandoned. As they stay longer in this village, strange things start to happen. People start going missing, mysterious creatures start appearing aaaaaand..... I won't spoil anymore than that. But from that little synopsis I wrote up, Mayoiga seems pretty interesting, right?

That's what I thought as well but I never thought I would've been so disappointed by this show. The main problem I had with the story was that too many things were happening at once and these things were practically left unexplained or just touched upon. This made the story quite hard to understand at times and made the show seem a lot more confusing than it really was. 

The mystery aspect of the show really bugged me as well. This show made me think that there was going to be a big plot twist sooner or later because of the slow build up. And to be honest, half-way through the show, that was the only thing that made me keep watching Mayoiga. In the end, did I get my big plot twist or story climax after all that suspense and building up? 
Nope.

Art and Sound:

The artwork of Mayoiga was actually somewhat good. Character designs were decent (Lion tho <3), background scenery helped add to the mysterious atmosphere of the show and the animation was okay. The only thing that I had a problem with was the 3D animation. It just felt so out of place and just looked bad in general.

As for the sound, the OP and ED were good but weren't really anything special. The OST helped give the show suspense but again it wasn't anything special and was easily forgettable.

Character:

Now this is where Mayoiga really messes up. As I mentioned before, this show had 30 characters, this was a really dumb choice on the writers' part, in my opinion. 30 characters in a 12 episode series? Seriously? None of the characters in the show had any significant development because of the short screen time they had to share amongst the large cast. None of the characters had anytime to the shine and eventually they get become so boring and forgettable that you just don't care about them anymore.

Aside from the ridiculously large and undeveloped cast, these characters' personalities are just soooo unlikeable. And on top of unlikeable personalities, these characters did and said some of the dumbest things I could've imagined. I was so close the dropping this show, like EXTREMELY close. I could not handle the stupidity and ridiculousness of some of these characters. Honestly, it was like these characters were inept at using any form of logic.

Here's an example:

Everyone: MISAKI IS A GHOST BCZ IDK !!!!!11!!TIE HER UP!!11!bdwbfbBYUVUY EXECUTEHERRRRRR
Speedstar: *cuts Misaki*
Misaki: *bleeds*
Everyone: Well i guess she's not a ghost since she's bleeding
Hiyato (or whatever his name is): JFC MISAKI IS OBVIOUSLY A GHOST AND SHE'S BEHIND EVERYTHIINNGGG!!!1! WHY DOES NO ONE UNDERSTAND ME kyuUkvUK I HATE EVERYONE blah blah blah
Mitsumune: Leave Misaki alone! She's not the type of person to do all this!
*Bus guy almost runs over everyone with the bus and kidnaps Misaki*
Bus dude: WHERE TF IS MY DAUGHTER?!?!
*starts crying*

Enjoyment:

To say the least, I did not enjoy this show. More specifically, I didn't like the characters of this show. Though the show was able to build the suspense to the supposed plot climax, in the end it didn't deliver and it felt very anti-climatic.
Buuut to an extent, I did slightly enjoy Mayoiga. I enjoyed it in a way that it was so bad that it was good.

Overall:

Story - 5 (below average)
Art - 7 (good)
Sound - 7 (good)
Character - 1 (garbage)
Enjoyment - 2 (still garbage)
Overall - 4.4/10 - Would not recommend 

Ugh it's 5AM, I'm tired. Why am i still awake... 
Anyways...
Thank you for putting up with this rant/review.
Peace ()






Helpful


read more
