      
    I felt obligated to write this review to correct a wrong Ive seen.  Mayoiga, also known as The Lost Village, drew my attention because its a member of an endangered species called horror/thriller anime.  With so few members in the club, youd think people would use a comb of objective discernment before jumping off the edge of a conclusions mat when examining a new acolyte, but I didnt find such a review on this site.  I dont know whether the anime had a School Days Effect because it wasnt what people expected, but Im confident if youre a fan of horror/thriller anime

          
        whos looking for something subverting most of the common, structural tropes of the genre, you wont be disappointed, even though Ill admit youll wish the project was executed better.

Story 7/10:  The anime begins with a bus ride of around 30 characters all leaving their disappointing lives to start anew in a hidden village named Nanaki.  They all enter said village, find it abandoned, and then weird stuff starts happening, the people disappearing and bloody claw marks on trees type of weird stuff.  

This sounds like a genius setup for a horror anime, and I believe the plot presents itself well within the confines of the genre.  Its the way the plot progresses that bumps it down to a 7.  Usually in a story-driven anime where conversation replaces Michael Bay explosions the general population loves to drool over (The reason why superhero movies, despite using the same, tired formula, are popular yet hidden gems like Box of Goblins and Shin Sekai Yori stay underground), youd expect most of the conversation to be effective in moving the plot along, but Mayoiga annoyingly has a plot point brought up, then every character giving their two cents, oftentimes a penny, into their thoughts on the situation.  Where in other anime youd have an intelligent conversation on, How the hell do we solve this mess? here youll have two or three characters trying to solve things constantly interrupted by ten or fifteen idiots rambling worse than Shonen side-characters providing combat commentary.  Having the useless third-nipples shut-up, or giving them their own time in mini-arcs would have been a better decision than turning a four man show into fifteen person party.  Nevertheless, The Lost Village stays serviceable by not derailing from the central mystery plaguing the cast, and by keeping its primary cast (You know, those few people moving things along) tied to the mystery.  Speaking of characters:

Characters  8/10:  Seems like a high score with such a large cast missing in translation, huh?  The shows characterization is also the primary selling point behind the show being labeled as a comedy (And I think THAT analysis of the show is comedic), but Id argue the main characters in the story serve their vital functions well, get a decent amount of backstory, and play off each other well, given their past and idiosyncrasies.  Of course you have your tropes (like youll find in most anime), like the overoptimistic protagonist (I congratulated myself on effortlessly winning spot the protag in their 30-person-band), the bantam loli, the normal girl who knows more than shes letting on (I hated her for most of the show), the detective, the take-charge jerk (two of these, actually), the best friend, the modern culture guy, the big-eater, the PDA couple, the crazy one (two of these), the sexy one basically the cast of Battle Royale going to a lost village.  Even though most of the cast members are just as useless as sacks of corn as scarecrows, the way the main ones invested in the mystery and interacted added a layer to the ridiculously large cast.  And even though most consider the casts antics laughable, I remembered no one on that bus was a normal person.  Everyone was an outcast of society, who felt so ostracized by the lives they led (as their backstories indicate), they felt joining a group of strangers and going to a village in the middle of nowhere the best option to find peace.  Therefore, I expected the weird, sometimes ludicrous actions from the cast, because none of them were well-adjusted individuals.  

Art 6/10:  Nothing Id put beside Van Gogh, but it served its function well.  The mist added a creepy effect to the town, reminding me of its effect in the Silent Hill series.  I also thought the 3D effects could have been better integrated, but at least it wasnt as jarring as Ookamikakushi or Berserks attempt.  

Music  6/10:  Nothing Id put beside Mozart, but the openings combination with its music and images made me barely desire to skip it.  The ending theme  I didnt care much for.  The somber music that hangs during most of the soundtrack added to the shows atmosphere, even though there was one time when they tried amplifying a frightening moment with a speedy tempo that fell flat, it overall served its function.

Enjoyment 8/10:  No, youre not going to find a superpowered guy killing people in one punch or growing silver hair and fighting aliens able to destroy planets with a sneeze.  Youre also not going to find a stereotypical gorefest like with Corpse Party or Another.  What we have here is a poor-mans Shin Sekai Yori or Box of Goblins, but that doesnt make this a horrible anime (looking at you Ookamikakushi).  This is what Sword Art Online would have become if it was a horror anime, another show that tried to hit the stars but instead hits the clouds (With SAO you had too many genres; here you have too many characters).  The biggest victory for The Lost Village, however, isnt how it almost becomes a deconstruction by trying to subvert some common tropes in horror anime, but in how it proves we shouldnt judge an anime by what people collectively think about it.  Take a look at it yourselves, and you might find that gem speaking to your unique soul (If you watch the series, youll get that pun.) 

Look at all these bias scores to a decent anime!  How horrifying!  But Im going to punch that fear in the face, after it knocked the wind out of me, and give it an:

Overall:  7 out of 10.  

PS:  There is a general theory that this anime is somehow a comedy  Seriously?  I guess if you find child abuse, adult and school-grade bullying, attempted group lynching, grieving over dead children, and overly strict societal pressures comedic, considering Japans high suicide rate among young adults and teenagers, then I GUESS you could find something funny here...  A victim of work-place bullying and abuse myself, though, I found NOTHING comedic about this animes overall plot.  Yes, it had funny moments to lighten tension, but thats it.  A few of the characters plights even touched a personal note with me.  If the writer/manga writer comes out and says, Yes, I meant this to actually be a comedy!  I guess Ill have to eat a sheet of paper with my words on it, but until that day nothing I saw convinced me this is a comedy anime masquerading as a horror/thriller.      

Helpful


read more
