      
    With a pretty decent idea in mind, but done in the wrong way, The Lost Village (Mayoiga) was probably the weakest of the Spring 2016 season shows I watched.

I will admit, the first episode got me interested enough to want to see what happened next. But, as the story finally began to unfold, so did my lack of interest. The last few episodes felt like the writers didn't know how to progress the story and decided to wing it. The final episode didn't even feel like it was the end; things happened and it was over. While I don't mind the concept itself, it was

          
        mostly its execution that spoiled it. This is also a story that, I believe, should have gone on for maybe another season.

One of the biggest problems would have to be the characters. Right away, we're introduced to all 30 of our characters. That's right, 30. Now, I'm all for an ensemble cast, but I should at least find some of them interesting. I found none of them interesting at all. People's pasts play a crucial part to the story, yet we only get a handful of them while the rest are just there to pad out episodes by going around, letting them have their two cents in the matter, be it important or not. I cannot even care about the ones we get more in depth with because, in the end, they're uninteresting.

The animation isn't anything grand, and I'm pretty sure that was the intention. There was moderate consistency with movement and the character models, so there's not really a whole lot to say about it.

I've always been a sucker for any show that has an original concept and not an adaptation of a preexisting source. I don't get a chance to look at the story beforehand; it feels like I'm going in blind, which is a feeling I like. With that notion, I end up giving these type of shows a chance. Of course, like how not all adaptations will be that great, not all original ideas will be great either. The Lost Village is not an exception. Sometimes lack of information can be fun because you don't know what to expect, but can be excruciating when all that hype leads to nothing.
        

Helpful


read more
