       
    Warning:  The following review contains mild spoilers to Mayoiga and Higurashi no naku koro ni (used as reference)

The Idea of the Show sounded Genius.   It actually also started out very well, keeping me interested if not glued to the screen the first ~3-4 episodes. After that it gradually lost quality so hard that i am stuck at 11 of 12 episodes and i dont even want to watch the last one because i could watch better anime in that time.

When it started out, not only the show sounded genius,  but actually the first episode in a whole is basically insanely good.

          
        After Watching and playing the Higurashi saga, i wanted something suspenseful, basically horrifying which is not just some splatter shit (im looking at you corpse party).   In Higurashi for example, before the splatter begins, there is much suspense and excitement because the protagonist (and the viewer) has a growing feeling that something is wrong. A growing feeling of danger although there is no real threat at first.   The beginning of Mayoiga also had that feeling,   i also dare to say the potential was enormous. Few episodes later (about ep 3 or 4 i think) there are two things that you (as the viewer) think:   1. "Maaan, i hate the protagonist. Hes such a wimpy crybaby b*tch"    aaaand 2. "the ever growing suspense came to a halt and nothing happens.  is this all?"

and well... after that it went downwards.    It of course got worse in a curve,  meaning that some very interesting and thrilling bits popped up here and then,  but in the end it got worse.         In Higurashi,  one of the factors that made it very thrilling was also that the viewer gets the impression of a supernatural force killing the people (season 1 beginning), but its not obvious meaning it COULD also be actual people with no supernatural shit whatsoever.         BUT IN MAYOIGA,   it becomes clear very fast that some supernatural shit is happening.

Also Mayoiga had some strangely annoying things (at least for me)...:
1. the couple always being lovey dovey while being in actual danger
2. every scene where someone runs away from someone/something (there were so many... something like 20 scenes of separate ppl running away from separate dangers)  and while i understand that this has to do with the positive message of the anime (never run away from your fears or something like that)   it was overused A F 
3. The positive message.   Positive messages are a good thing-    IF they wouldnt be slapped in the face of the viewer about every 3 seconds by some obvious metapher.
Its like-   a moral of a story,     a positive message:  at the end of the anime you should be like "i guess it had a positive message all the time brabrabra"   but in this anime its more like: "OK IM IN EPISODE 8 AND I GET F*STED BY A OBVIOUS SHALLOW "DEEP" MESSAGE WHICH SEEMS TO BE THE SOLE REASON EVERY CHARACTER IS IN THE SITUATION THEY ARE AND EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS HAPPENS.

Aside from that its a decent anime.
        

Helpful


read more
