      
    Mayoiga, was one of the most interesting anime in the spring season of 2016, there is a reason why I added "was" because it literally was interesting for the first 3 episodes or so.

let's talk about the story, a group of strangers on a trip to an unknown village. a lot of people got excited because those kinds of stories are really famous and they always turn out to be good BUT not in Mayoiga. don't get fooled by its misleading genre of Horror, Mystery, Drama, and Violence. they made it seem like it would be so scary with a lot of deaths, blood and

          
        gore but no no no that was all a lie, it is more of stupid comedy than a drama anime LOL.

Story: 4/10

I loved the fact that it was a mystery anime and in fact it was the anime i looked most forward to this season, i was wrong. so people who go to "Nanaki Village" get to face their Nanaki (monsters) made from their psychological scars and fears(?) not bad but the name just didn't know what to do with the story and thought "oh why don't we create stupid monsters that will haunt their owners until they accept them" ??????? that is so stupid, the story for me was the worst part.

Art: 5/10 --- Sound 7/10

Character designs were good but not so special, the Animation was better but not the kind that i'd call "AMAZING" let's talk about how bad the Monsters' animation was, CGI? seriously CGI??? i really really hated it how the used CGI for the monsters, it just looked so bad like so so bad i don't want to even talk about it anymore.
I personally liked the opening and ending, mostly the opening, the opening was very good for me, the ending was okay. some characters had good voices and some had really bad which made them even more hate-able.

Character: 2/10

yes i gave it a 2!! main male character is the stupidest ever, main female is the "dumb, scared from everything" character you see everywhere even though she was cute, other characters were so bad and annoying, and let's talk about Love-pon, "execute him" "execute her" "execution time" sweety please go execute yourself. seriously if you want the anime to do good then you should have created likeable characters.

Enjoyment: 6/10

I don't even know why or how, i gave it a 6 because i did enjoy the anime a bit, it had that feeling of "keep watching me" even though it was stupid, but still its not that enjoyable that you'd go and re-watch some scenes. 

Overall: 5/10

bad story
bad characters
good/okay soundtracks and OST
animation not special and ugly use of CGI
average, average, bad, average anime
yes that is all, it's like the creators made the anime bad on purpose, but i won't say that i wasted a lot of time watching Mayoiga, it taught me again to never judge a book by its cover.
        

Helpful


read more
