      
    Mayoiga, average score: 5.89 (the last time I checked).
Since the show has gotten a really low score, while I found it very enjoyable, I feel the obligation of writing a review to provide some enlightenment to those who need guidance.

First of all, it's a psychological-theme anime. From the first 1-2 episodes, I (or you) can easily tell the show has quite amount of psychological aspect in it. So I recommend this anime to those who are into this genre. BUT do not expect an anime like those of Evangelion, Lain, Technolyze, or the other similar. The psychology theme here is rather simple, easy to swallow,

          
        (and perhaps shallow), but still quite enjoyable.

The show has so many characters in it, some say 30, thirty? I don't know for sure, I didn't count. Why bother? Yes indeed it is indecisive to have too many, way too many characters and with only 12 eps available. But then again, why bother? The main idea here is, "When you put a group of people in one place, put them all in one same situation, you will get various reactions from them, it shows differences in people personalities. This is basic knowledge in psychology study (I think :p)."

Yes, I have read some people says the characters were not made well enough. Their actions/behavior were stupid, ridiculous, etc. Well, if you read the previous paragraph, this should have been answered already. Maybe some of the characters act really stupid, but I am not sure myself, if I were put in similar situation, will I have reacted any better?

Some also say about half of the characters were useless, has no function at all whatsoever. I don't particularly give much care about that. Because what I really enjoy about here is seeing how the characters deal with their situations. And with so many characters in it you get to see so many different reactions. It is almost like sitting on Izaya's chair watching people dancing in the palm of his hand, if you know what I mean. (Maybe that's exaggerating)

And I don't care about anything else. The drama was not there, (there was if you like cheap drama). Yes, it has some mystery atmosphere in it, but for me the main dish was the psychological aspect. And that's how I see it, why should I see it in any other ways? I look at what I like to see, and I overlook what I do not like to see. (Unwise, I know :p)

That's all then, I hope it provide enough justification for my score.

I would've given it a 9 if not for that schizophrenia shit at the end of the show, really.

I hope this review were helpful.
Thanks for reading.
Cheers.
        

Helpful


read more
