      
    [MAJOR SPOILER WARNING]

Have you ever been forced to listen to an argument that you aren't a part of? That's what Mayoiga is like. 

Mayoiga (The Lost Village) is a 12-episodes series that aired during the Spring 2016 season, and is essentially an exercise in making an audience as irritated and miserable as possible. As I said earlier, Mayoiga is a lot like listening to an argument that you aren't a part of. You aren't personally invested, you don't want to listen to them, and in that moment you probably hate everyone involved with the fighting. Due to the countless number of fuck-ups in Mayoiga, all

          
        of these also apply to it.

The audience at large isn't invested in the characters of Mayoiga because simply put, they're all assholes. The only thing the characters are good at doing are: 1. bitching at each other, and 2. telling the audience how they feel. The former is a problem because after about 3 episodes you've had just about enough of all of them. This script is honestly so mean-spirited that it's seriously impossible to like anyone. Did I mention Mari Okada was involved in the production? The latter is a problem because your characters are not supposed to tell the audience how they feel. You're supposed to SHOW the audience. If you're telling instead of showing when it comes to emotions you are failing as a storyteller. 

Speaking of storytelling failure, the actual story of Mayoiga is garbage too. It's about a bunch of assholes who want to escape society by taking a bus to Nanaki Village, a mysterious place where they begin their lives anew. Nanaki Village itself is plagued by giant monsters called Nanaki, that are physical manifestations of the various fears and regrets of the people there. Now you might be thinking that sounds interesting, but I can assure you it is not. All of their fears boil down to stupid stuff like bees (a girl gets attacked by bees when she was little, so her greatest fear is apparently bees) or cliche crap like one character's dead daughter. Ugh. Oh, and you know why our main character, Mitsumune, left to go on the tour? Because his brother died and his mom was calling him his brother's name instead of his real name. Yeah, seriously. His mother was in a state of shock and emotional upheaval after Mitsumune's death and as a result, calls him his brother's name. Apparently dealing with this is just too much for our little Mitsumune, so he runs away from home, increasing his mother's anxiety tenfold and probably destroying her emotionally for her remaining years. This is exactly why I hate all of the characters. Their actions are very questionable, and in many instances such as this downright despicable. All Mitsumune had to do was suck it up and wait until he graduates high school and it would have been fine. Yes, he and his mother clearly needed to come to a reconciliation regarding the whole name thing, but Mitsumune needed to TALK TO HER instead of running away and making everything worse!

As far as visuals and music goes, well...the Nanaki themselves did look neato and the music wasn't the worst thing I've ever heard. So there's that...?

If you can't tell, Mayoiga is garbage. This gets my award for the worst anime of Spring 2016, which is actually quite a feat considering Big Order was airing at the same time. There is nothing here that redeems the series. The characters are annoying and unlikable, the story is mean-spirited and half-hearted, the visuals are uninspired outside of the Nanaki themselves, and the music is repetitive and terrible. 

Do not watch Mayoiga. 

Final score: 1/10
        

Helpful


read more
